PART III. A VOYAGE TO LAPUTA, BALNIBARBI, GLUBBDUBDRIB, LUGGNAGG AND
JAPAN.


CHAPTER I.

The author sets out on his third voyage. Is taken by pirates. The
malice of a Dutchman. His arrival at an island. He is received into
Laputa.


I had not been at home above ten days, when Captain William Robinson, a
Cornish man, commander of the Hopewell, a stout ship of three hundred
tons, came to my house. I had formerly been surgeon of another ship
where he was master, and a fourth part owner, in a voyage to the
Levant. He had always treated me more like a brother, than an inferior
officer; and, hearing of my arrival, made me a visit, as I apprehended
only out of friendship, for nothing passed more than what is usual
after long absences. But repeating his visits often, expressing his joy
to find me in good health, asking, “whether I were now settled for
life?” adding, “that he intended a voyage to the East Indies in two
months,” at last he plainly invited me, though with some apologies, to
be surgeon of the ship; “that I should have another surgeon under me,
beside our two mates; that my salary should be double to the usual pay;
and that having experienced my knowledge in sea-affairs to be at least
equal to his, he would enter into any engagement to follow my advice,
as much as if I had shared in the command.”

He said so many other obliging things, and I knew him to be so honest a
man, that I could not reject this proposal; the thirst I had of seeing
the world, notwithstanding my past misfortunes, continuing as violent
as ever. The only difficulty that remained, was to persuade my wife,
whose consent however I at last obtained, by the prospect of advantage
she proposed to her children.

We set out the 5th day of August, 1706, and arrived at Fort St. George
the 11th of April, 1707. We staid there three weeks to refresh our
crew, many of whom were sick. From thence we went to Tonquin, where the
captain resolved to continue some time, because many of the goods he
intended to buy were not ready, nor could he expect to be dispatched in
several months. Therefore, in hopes to defray some of the charges he
must be at, he bought a sloop, loaded it with several sorts of goods,
wherewith the Tonquinese usually trade to the neighbouring islands, and
putting fourteen men on board, whereof three were of the country, he
appointed me master of the sloop, and gave me power to traffic, while
he transacted his affairs at Tonquin.

We had not sailed above three days, when a great storm arising, we were
driven five days to the north-north-east, and then to the east: after
which we had fair weather, but still with a pretty strong gale from the
west. Upon the tenth day we were chased by two pirates, who soon
overtook us; for my sloop was so deep laden, that she sailed very slow,
neither were we in a condition to defend ourselves.

We were boarded about the same time by both the pirates, who entered
furiously at the head of their men; but finding us all prostrate upon
our faces (for so I gave order), they pinioned us with strong ropes,
and setting guard upon us, went to search the sloop.

I observed among them a Dutchman, who seemed to be of some authority,
though he was not commander of either ship. He knew us by our
countenances to be Englishmen, and jabbering to us in his own language,
swore we should be tied back to back and thrown into the sea. I spoke
Dutch tolerably well; I told him who we were, and begged him, in
consideration of our being Christians and Protestants, of neighbouring
countries in strict alliance, that he would move the captains to take
some pity on us. This inflamed his rage; he repeated his threatenings,
and turning to his companions, spoke with great vehemence in the
Japanese language, as I suppose, often using the word Christianos.

The largest of the two pirate ships was commanded by a Japanese
captain, who spoke a little Dutch, but very imperfectly. He came up to
me, and after several questions, which I answered in great humility, he
said, “we should not die.” I made the captain a very low bow, and then,
turning to the Dutchman, said, “I was sorry to find more mercy in a
heathen, than in a brother christian.” But I had soon reason to repent
those foolish words: for that malicious reprobate, having often
endeavoured in vain to persuade both the captains that I might be
thrown into the sea (which they would not yield to, after the promise
made me that I should not die), however, prevailed so far, as to have a
punishment inflicted on me, worse, in all human appearance, than death
itself. My men were sent by an equal division into both the pirate
ships, and my sloop new manned. As to myself, it was determined that I
should be set adrift in a small canoe, with paddles and a sail, and
four days’ provisions; which last, the Japanese captain was so kind to
double out of his own stores, and would permit no man to search me. I
got down into the canoe, while the Dutchman, standing upon the deck,
loaded me with all the curses and injurious terms his language could
afford.

About an hour before we saw the pirates I had taken an observation, and
found we were in the latitude of 46 N. and longitude of 183. When I was
at some distance from the pirates, I discovered, by my pocket-glass,
several islands to the south-east. I set up my sail, the wind being
fair, with a design to reach the nearest of those islands, which I made
a shift to do, in about three hours. It was all rocky: however I got
many birds’ eggs; and, striking fire, I kindled some heath and dry
sea-weed, by which I roasted my eggs. I ate no other supper, being
resolved to spare my provisions as much as I could. I passed the night
under the shelter of a rock, strewing some heath under me, and slept
pretty well.

The next day I sailed to another island, and thence to a third and
fourth, sometimes using my sail, and sometimes my paddles. But, not to
trouble the reader with a particular account of my distresses, let it
suffice, that on the fifth day I arrived at the last island in my
sight, which lay south-south-east to the former.

This island was at a greater distance than I expected, and I did not
reach it in less than five hours. I encompassed it almost round, before
I could find a convenient place to land in; which was a small creek,
about three times the wideness of my canoe. I found the island to be
all rocky, only a little intermingled with tufts of grass, and
sweet-smelling herbs. I took out my small provisions and after having
refreshed myself, I secured the remainder in a cave, whereof there were
great numbers; I gathered plenty of eggs upon the rocks, and got a
quantity of dry sea-weed, and parched grass, which I designed to kindle
the next day, and roast my eggs as well as I could, for I had about me
my flint, steel, match, and burning-glass. I lay all night in the cave
where I had lodged my provisions. My bed was the same dry grass and
sea-weed which I intended for fuel. I slept very little, for the
disquiets of my mind prevailed over my weariness, and kept me awake. I
considered how impossible it was to preserve my life in so desolate a
place, and how miserable my end must be: yet found myself so listless
and desponding, that I had not the heart to rise; and before I could
get spirits enough to creep out of my cave, the day was far advanced. I
walked awhile among the rocks: the sky was perfectly clear, and the sun
so hot, that I was forced to turn my face from it: when all on a sudden
it became obscure, as I thought, in a manner very different from what
happens by the interposition of a cloud. I turned back, and perceived a
vast opaque body between me and the sun moving forwards towards the
island: it seemed to be about two miles high, and hid the sun six or
seven minutes; but I did not observe the air to be much colder, or the
sky more darkened, than if I had stood under the shade of a mountain.
As it approached nearer over the place where I was, it appeared to be a
firm substance, the bottom flat, smooth, and shining very bright, from
the reflection of the sea below. I stood upon a height about two
hundred yards from the shore, and saw this vast body descending almost
to a parallel with me, at less than an English mile distance. I took
out my pocket perspective, and could plainly discover numbers of people
moving up and down the sides of it, which appeared to be sloping; but
what those people were doing I was not able to distinguish.

The natural love of life gave me some inward motion of joy, and I was
ready to entertain a hope that this adventure might, some way or other,
help to deliver me from the desolate place and condition I was in. But
at the same time the reader can hardly conceive my astonishment, to
behold an island in the air, inhabited by men, who were able (as it
should seem) to raise or sink, or put it into progressive motion, as
they pleased. But not being at that time in a disposition to
philosophise upon this phenomenon, I rather chose to observe what
course the island would take, because it seemed for a while to stand
still. Yet soon after, it advanced nearer, and I could see the sides of
it encompassed with several gradations of galleries, and stairs, at
certain intervals, to descend from one to the other. In the lowest
gallery, I beheld some people fishing with long angling rods, and
others looking on. I waved my cap (for my hat was long since worn out)
and my handkerchief toward the island; and upon its nearer approach, I
called and shouted with the utmost strength of my voice; and then
looking circumspectly, I beheld a crowd gather to that side which was
most in my view. I found by their pointing towards me and to each
other, that they plainly discovered me, although they made no return to
my shouting. But I could see four or five men running in great haste,
up the stairs, to the top of the island, who then disappeared. I
happened rightly to conjecture, that these were sent for orders to some
person in authority upon this occasion.

The number of people increased, and, in less than half an hour, the
island was moved and raised in such a manner, that the lowest gallery
appeared in a parallel of less than a hundred yards distance from the
height where I stood. I then put myself in the most supplicating
posture, and spoke in the humblest accent, but received no answer.
Those who stood nearest over against me, seemed to be persons of
distinction, as I supposed by their habit. They conferred earnestly
with each other, looking often upon me. At length one of them called
out in a clear, polite, smooth dialect, not unlike in sound to the
Italian: and therefore I returned an answer in that language, hoping at
least that the cadence might be more agreeable to his ears. Although
neither of us understood the other, yet my meaning was easily known,
for the people saw the distress I was in.

They made signs for me to come down from the rock, and go towards the
shore, which I accordingly did; and the flying island being raised to a
convenient height, the verge directly over me, a chain was let down
from the lowest gallery, with a seat fastened to the bottom, to which I
fixed myself, and was drawn up by pulleys.


CHAPTER II.

The humours and dispositions of the Laputians described. An account of
their learning. Of the king and his court. The author’s reception
there. The inhabitants subject to fear and disquietudes. An account of
the women.


At my alighting, I was surrounded with a crowd of people, but those who
stood nearest seemed to be of better quality. They beheld me with all
the marks and circumstances of wonder; neither indeed was I much in
their debt, having never till then seen a race of mortals so singular
in their shapes, habits, and countenances. Their heads were all
reclined, either to the right, or the left; one of their eyes turned
inward, and the other directly up to the zenith. Their outward garments
were adorned with the figures of suns, moons, and stars; interwoven
with those of fiddles, flutes, harps, trumpets, guitars, harpsichords,
and many other instruments of music, unknown to us in Europe. I
observed, here and there, many in the habit of servants, with a blown
bladder, fastened like a flail to the end of a stick, which they
carried in their hands. In each bladder was a small quantity of dried
peas, or little pebbles, as I was afterwards informed. With these
bladders, they now and then flapped the mouths and ears of those who
stood near them, of which practice I could not then conceive the
meaning. It seems the minds of these people are so taken up with
intense speculations, that they neither can speak, nor attend to the
discourses of others, without being roused by some external taction
upon the organs of speech and hearing; for which reason, those persons
who are able to afford it always keep a flapper (the original is
climenole) in their family, as one of their domestics; nor ever walk
abroad, or make visits, without him. And the business of this officer
is, when two, three, or more persons are in company, gently to strike
with his bladder the mouth of him who is to speak, and the right ear of
him or them to whom the speaker addresses himself. This flapper is
likewise employed diligently to attend his master in his walks, and
upon occasion to give him a soft flap on his eyes; because he is always
so wrapped up in cogitation, that he is in manifest danger of falling
down every precipice, and bouncing his head against every post; and in
the streets, of justling others, or being justled himself into the
kennel.

It was necessary to give the reader this information, without which he
would be at the same loss with me to understand the proceedings of
these people, as they conducted me up the stairs to the top of the
island, and from thence to the royal palace. While we were ascending,
they forgot several times what they were about, and left me to myself,
till their memories were again roused by their flappers; for they
appeared altogether unmoved by the sight of my foreign habit and
countenance, and by the shouts of the vulgar, whose thoughts and minds
were more disengaged.

At last we entered the palace, and proceeded into the chamber of
presence, where I saw the king seated on his throne, attended on each
side by persons of prime quality. Before the throne, was a large table
filled with globes and spheres, and mathematical instruments of all
kinds. His majesty took not the least notice of us, although our
entrance was not without sufficient noise, by the concourse of all
persons belonging to the court. But he was then deep in a problem; and
we attended at least an hour, before he could solve it. There stood by
him, on each side, a young page with flaps in their hands, and when
they saw he was at leisure, one of them gently struck his mouth, and
the other his right ear; at which he startled like one awaked on the
sudden, and looking towards me and the company I was in, recollected
the occasion of our coming, whereof he had been informed before. He
spoke some words, whereupon immediately a young man with a flap came up
to my side, and flapped me gently on the right ear; but I made signs,
as well as I could, that I had no occasion for such an instrument;
which, as I afterwards found, gave his majesty, and the whole court, a
very mean opinion of my understanding. The king, as far as I could
conjecture, asked me several questions, and I addressed myself to him
in all the languages I had. When it was found I could neither
understand nor be understood, I was conducted by his order to an
apartment in his palace (this prince being distinguished above all his
predecessors for his hospitality to strangers), where two servants were
appointed to attend me. My dinner was brought, and four persons of
quality, whom I remembered to have seen very near the king’s person,
did me the honour to dine with me. We had two courses, of three dishes
each. In the first course, there was a shoulder of mutton cut into an
equilateral triangle, a piece of beef into a rhomboides, and a pudding
into a cycloid. The second course was two ducks trussed up in the form
of fiddles; sausages and puddings resembling flutes and hautboys, and a
breast of veal in the shape of a harp. The servants cut our bread into
cones, cylinders, parallelograms, and several other mathematical
figures.

While we were at dinner, I made bold to ask the names of several things
in their language, and those noble persons, by the assistance of their
flappers, delighted to give me answers, hoping to raise my admiration
of their great abilities if I could be brought to converse with them. I
was soon able to call for bread and drink, or whatever else I wanted.

After dinner my company withdrew, and a person was sent to me by the
king’s order, attended by a flapper. He brought with him pen, ink, and
paper, and three or four books, giving me to understand by signs, that
he was sent to teach me the language. We sat together four hours, in
which time I wrote down a great number of words in columns, with the
translations over against them; I likewise made a shift to learn
several short sentences; for my tutor would order one of my servants to
fetch something, to turn about, to make a bow, to sit, or to stand, or
walk, and the like. Then I took down the sentence in writing. He showed
me also, in one of his books, the figures of the sun, moon, and stars,
the zodiac, the tropics, and polar circles, together with the
denominations of many planes and solids. He gave me the names and
descriptions of all the musical instruments, and the general terms of
art in playing on each of them. After he had left me, I placed all my
words, with their interpretations, in alphabetical order. And thus, in
a few days, by the help of a very faithful memory, I got some insight
into their language. The word, which I interpret the flying or floating
island, is in the original Laputa, whereof I could never learn the
true etymology. Lap, in the old obsolete language, signifies high;
and untuh, a governor; from which they say, by corruption, was
derived Laputa, from Lapuntuh. But I do not approve of this
derivation, which seems to be a little strained. I ventured to offer to
the learned among them a conjecture of my own, that Laputa was quasi
lap outed; lap, signifying properly, the dancing of the sunbeams in
the sea, and outed, a wing; which, however, I shall not obtrude, but
submit to the judicious reader.

Those to whom the king had entrusted me, observing how ill I was clad,
ordered a tailor to come next morning, and take measure for a suit of
clothes. This operator did his office after a different manner from
those of his trade in Europe. He first took my altitude by a quadrant,
and then, with a rule and compasses, described the dimensions and
outlines of my whole body, all which he entered upon paper; and in six
days brought my clothes very ill made, and quite out of shape, by
happening to mistake a figure in the calculation. But my comfort was,
that I observed such accidents very frequent, and little regarded.

During my confinement for want of clothes, and by an indisposition that
held me some days longer, I much enlarged my dictionary; and when I
went next to court, was able to understand many things the king spoke,
and to return him some kind of answers. His majesty had given orders,
that the island should move north-east and by east, to the vertical
point over Lagado, the metropolis of the whole kingdom below, upon the
firm earth. It was about ninety leagues distant, and our voyage lasted
four days and a half. I was not in the least sensible of the
progressive motion made in the air by the island. On the second
morning, about eleven o’clock, the king himself in person, attended by
his nobility, courtiers, and officers, having prepared all their
musical instruments, played on them for three hours without
intermission, so that I was quite stunned with the noise; neither could
I possibly guess the meaning, till my tutor informed me. He said that,
the people of their island had their ears adapted to hear “the music of
the spheres, which always played at certain periods, and the court was
now prepared to bear their part, in whatever instrument they most
excelled.”

In our journey towards Lagado, the capital city, his majesty ordered
that the island should stop over certain towns and villages, from
whence he might receive the petitions of his subjects. And to this
purpose, several packthreads were let down, with small weights at the
bottom. On these packthreads the people strung their petitions, which
mounted up directly, like the scraps of paper fastened by schoolboys at
the end of the string that holds their kite. Sometimes we received wine
and victuals from below, which were drawn up by pulleys.

The knowledge I had in mathematics gave me great assistance in
acquiring their phraseology, which depended much upon that science, and
music; and in the latter I was not unskilled. Their ideas are
perpetually conversant in lines and figures. If they would, for
example, praise the beauty of a woman, or any other animal, they
describe it by rhombs, circles, parallelograms, ellipses, and other
geometrical terms, or by words of art drawn from music, needless here
to repeat. I observed in the king’s kitchen all sorts of mathematical
and musical instruments, after the figures of which they cut up the
joints that were served to his majesty’s table.

Their houses are very ill built, the walls bevel, without one right
angle in any apartment; and this defect arises from the contempt they
bear to practical geometry, which they despise as vulgar and mechanic;
those instructions they give being too refined for the intellects of
their workmen, which occasions perpetual mistakes. And although they
are dexterous enough upon a piece of paper, in the management of the
rule, the pencil, and the divider, yet in the common actions and
behaviour of life, I have not seen a more clumsy, awkward, and unhandy
people, nor so slow and perplexed in their conceptions upon all other
subjects, except those of mathematics and music. They are very bad
reasoners, and vehemently given to opposition, unless when they happen
to be of the right opinion, which is seldom their case. Imagination,
fancy, and invention, they are wholly strangers to, nor have any words
in their language, by which those ideas can be expressed; the whole
compass of their thoughts and mind being shut up within the two
forementioned sciences.

Most of them, and especially those who deal in the astronomical part,
have great faith in judicial astrology, although they are ashamed to
own it publicly. But what I chiefly admired, and thought altogether
unaccountable, was the strong disposition I observed in them towards
news and politics, perpetually inquiring into public affairs, giving
their judgments in matters of state, and passionately disputing every
inch of a party opinion. I have indeed observed the same disposition
among most of the mathematicians I have known in Europe, although I
could never discover the least analogy between the two sciences; unless
those people suppose, that because the smallest circle has as many
degrees as the largest, therefore the regulation and management of the
world require no more abilities than the handling and turning of a
globe; but I rather take this quality to spring from a very common
infirmity of human nature, inclining us to be most curious and
conceited in matters where we have least concern, and for which we are
least adapted by study or nature.

These people are under continual disquietudes, never enjoying a
minute’s peace of mind; and their disturbances proceed from causes
which very little affect the rest of mortals. Their apprehensions arise
from several changes they dread in the celestial bodies: for instance,
that the earth, by the continual approaches of the sun towards it,
must, in course of time, be absorbed, or swallowed up; that the face of
the sun, will, by degrees, be encrusted with its own effluvia, and give
no more light to the world; that the earth very narrowly escaped a
brush from the tail of the last comet, which would have infallibly
reduced it to ashes; and that the next, which they have calculated for
one-and-thirty years hence, will probably destroy us. For if, in its
perihelion, it should approach within a certain degree of the sun (as
by their calculations they have reason to dread) it will receive a
degree of heat ten thousand times more intense than that of red hot
glowing iron, and in its absence from the sun, carry a blazing tail ten
hundred thousand and fourteen miles long, through which, if the earth
should pass at the distance of one hundred thousand miles from the
nucleus, or main body of the comet, it must in its passage be set on
fire, and reduced to ashes: that the sun, daily spending its rays
without any nutriment to supply them, will at last be wholly consumed
and annihilated; which must be attended with the destruction of this
earth, and of all the planets that receive their light from it.

They are so perpetually alarmed with the apprehensions of these, and
the like impending dangers, that they can neither sleep quietly in
their beds, nor have any relish for the common pleasures and amusements
of life. When they meet an acquaintance in the morning, the first
question is about the sun’s health, how he looked at his setting and
rising, and what hopes they have to avoid the stroke of the approaching
comet. This conversation they are apt to run into with the same temper
that boys discover in delighting to hear terrible stories of spirits
and hobgoblins, which they greedily listen to, and dare not go to bed
for fear.

The women of the island have abundance of vivacity: they contemn their
husbands, and are exceedingly fond of strangers, whereof there is
always a considerable number from the continent below, attending at
court, either upon affairs of the several towns and corporations, or
their own particular occasions, but are much despised, because they
want the same endowments. Among these the ladies choose their gallants:
but the vexation is, that they act with too much ease and security; for
the husband is always so rapt in speculation, that the mistress and
lover may proceed to the greatest familiarities before his face, if he
be but provided with paper and implements, and without his flapper at
his side.

The wives and daughters lament their confinement to the island,
although I think it the most delicious spot of ground in the world; and
although they live here in the greatest plenty and magnificence, and
are allowed to do whatever they please, they long to see the world, and
take the diversions of the metropolis, which they are not allowed to do
without a particular license from the king; and this is not easy to be
obtained, because the people of quality have found, by frequent
experience, how hard it is to persuade their women to return from
below. I was told that a great court lady, who had several children,—is
married to the prime minister, the richest subject in the kingdom, a
very graceful person, extremely fond of her, and lives in the finest
palace of the island,—went down to Lagado on the pretence of health,
there hid herself for several months, till the king sent a warrant to
search for her; and she was found in an obscure eating-house all in
rags, having pawned her clothes to maintain an old deformed footman,
who beat her every day, and in whose company she was taken, much
against her will. And although her husband received her with all
possible kindness, and without the least reproach, she soon after
contrived to steal down again, with all her jewels, to the same
gallant, and has not been heard of since.

This may perhaps pass with the reader rather for an European or English
story, than for one of a country so remote. But he may please to
consider, that the caprices of womankind are not limited by any climate
or nation, and that they are much more uniform, than can be easily
imagined.

In about a month’s time, I had made a tolerable proficiency in their
language, and was able to answer most of the king’s questions, when I
had the honour to attend him. His majesty discovered not the least
curiosity to inquire into the laws, government, history, religion, or
manners of the countries where I had been; but confined his questions
to the state of mathematics, and received the account I gave him with
great contempt and indifference, though often roused by his flapper on
each side.


CHAPTER III.

A phenomenon solved by modern philosophy and astronomy. The Laputians’
great improvements in the latter. The king’s method of suppressing
insurrections.


I desired leave of this prince to see the curiosities of the island,
which he was graciously pleased to grant, and ordered my tutor to
attend me. I chiefly wanted to know, to what cause, in art or in
nature, it owed its several motions, whereof I will now give a
philosophical account to the reader.

The flying or floating island is exactly circular, its diameter 7837
yards, or about four miles and a half, and consequently contains ten
thousand acres. It is three hundred yards thick. The bottom, or under
surface, which appears to those who view it below, is one even regular
plate of adamant, shooting up to the height of about two hundred yards.
Above it lie the several minerals in their usual order, and over all is
a coat of rich mould, ten or twelve feet deep. The declivity of the
upper surface, from the circumference to the centre, is the natural
cause why all the dews and rains, which fall upon the island, are
conveyed in small rivulets toward the middle, where they are emptied
into four large basins, each of about half a mile in circuit, and two
hundred yards distant from the centre. From these basins the water is
continually exhaled by the sun in the daytime, which effectually
prevents their overflowing. Besides, as it is in the power of the
monarch to raise the island above the region of clouds and vapours, he
can prevent the falling of dews and rain whenever he pleases. For the
highest clouds cannot rise above two miles, as naturalists agree, at
least they were never known to do so in that country.

At the centre of the island there is a chasm about fifty yards in
diameter, whence the astronomers descend into a large dome, which is
therefore called flandona gagnole, or the astronomer’s cave, situated
at the depth of a hundred yards beneath the upper surface of the
adamant. In this cave are twenty lamps continually burning, which, from
the reflection of the adamant, cast a strong light into every part. The
place is stored with great variety of sextants, quadrants, telescopes,
astrolabes, and other astronomical instruments. But the greatest
curiosity, upon which the fate of the island depends, is a loadstone of
a prodigious size, in shape resembling a weaver’s shuttle. It is in
length six yards, and in the thickest part at least three yards over.
This magnet is sustained by a very strong axle of adamant passing
through its middle, upon which it plays, and is poised so exactly that
the weakest hand can turn it. It is hooped round with a hollow cylinder
of adamant, four feet deep, as many thick, and twelve yards in
diameter, placed horizontally, and supported by eight adamantine feet,
each six yards high. In the middle of the concave side, there is a
groove twelve inches deep, in which the extremities of the axle are
lodged, and turned round as there is occasion.

The stone cannot be removed from its place by any force, because the
hoop and its feet are one continued piece with that body of adamant
which constitutes the bottom of the island.

By means of this loadstone, the island is made to rise and fall, and
move from one place to another. For, with respect to that part of the
earth over which the monarch presides, the stone is endued at one of
its sides with an attractive power, and at the other with a repulsive.
Upon placing the magnet erect, with its attracting end towards the
earth, the island descends; but when the repelling extremity points
downwards, the island mounts directly upwards. When the position of the
stone is oblique, the motion of the island is so too. For in this
magnet, the forces always act in lines parallel to its direction.

By this oblique motion, the island is conveyed to different parts of
the monarch’s dominions. To explain the manner of its progress, let A
B represent a line drawn across the dominions of Balnibarbi, let the
line c d represent the loadstone, of which let d be the repelling
end, and c the attracting end, the island being over C; let the
stone be placed in the position c d, with its repelling end
downwards; then the island will be driven upwards obliquely towards
D. When it is arrived at D, let the stone be turned upon its axle,
till its attracting end points towards E, and then the island will be
carried obliquely towards E; where, if the stone be again turned upon
its axle till it stands in the position E F, with its repelling
point downwards, the island will rise obliquely towards F, where, by
directing the attracting end towards G, the island may be carried to
G, and from G to H, by turning the stone, so as to make its
repelling extremity to point directly downward. And thus, by changing
the situation of the stone, as often as there is occasion, the island
is made to rise and fall by turns in an oblique direction, and by those
alternate risings and fallings (the obliquity being not considerable)
is conveyed from one part of the dominions to the other.

But it must be observed, that this island cannot move beyond the extent
of the dominions below, nor can it rise above the height of four miles.
For which the astronomers (who have written large systems concerning
the stone) assign the following reason: that the magnetic virtue does
not extend beyond the distance of four miles, and that the mineral,
which acts upon the stone in the bowels of the earth, and in the sea
about six leagues distant from the shore, is not diffused through the
whole globe, but terminated with the limits of the king’s dominions;
and it was easy, from the great advantage of such a superior situation,
for a prince to bring under his obedience whatever country lay within
the attraction of that magnet.

When the stone is put parallel to the plane of the horizon, the island
stands still; for in that case the extremities of it, being at equal
distance from the earth, act with equal force, the one in drawing
downwards, the other in pushing upwards, and consequently no motion can
ensue.

This loadstone is under the care of certain astronomers, who, from time
to time, give it such positions as the monarch directs. They spend the
greatest part of their lives in observing the celestial bodies, which
they do by the assistance of glasses, far excelling ours in goodness.
For, although their largest telescopes do not exceed three feet, they
magnify much more than those of a hundred with us, and show the stars
with greater clearness. This advantage has enabled them to extend their
discoveries much further than our astronomers in Europe; for they have
made a catalogue of ten thousand fixed stars, whereas the largest of
ours do not contain above one third part of that number. They have
likewise discovered two lesser stars, or satellites, which revolve
about Mars; whereof the innermost is distant from the centre of the
primary planet exactly three of his diameters, and the outermost, five;
the former revolves in the space of ten hours, and the latter in
twenty-one and a half; so that the squares of their periodical times
are very near in the same proportion with the cubes of their distance
from the centre of Mars; which evidently shows them to be governed by
the same law of gravitation that influences the other heavenly bodies.

They have observed ninety-three different comets, and settled their
periods with great exactness. If this be true (and they affirm it with
great confidence) it is much to be wished, that their observations were
made public, whereby the theory of comets, which at present is very
lame and defective, might be brought to the same perfection with other
arts of astronomy.

The king would be the most absolute prince in the universe, if he could
but prevail on a ministry to join with him; but these having their
estates below on the continent, and considering that the office of a
favourite has a very uncertain tenure, would never consent to the
enslaving of their country.

If any town should engage in rebellion or mutiny, fall into violent
factions, or refuse to pay the usual tribute, the king has two methods
of reducing them to obedience. The first and the mildest course is, by
keeping the island hovering over such a town, and the lands about it,
whereby he can deprive them of the benefit of the sun and the rain, and
consequently afflict the inhabitants with dearth and diseases. And if
the crime deserve it, they are at the same time pelted from above with
great stones, against which they have no defence but by creeping into
cellars or caves, while the roofs of their houses are beaten to pieces.
But if they still continue obstinate, or offer to raise insurrections,
he proceeds to the last remedy, by letting the island drop directly
upon their heads, which makes a universal destruction both of houses
and men. However, this is an extremity to which the prince is seldom
driven, neither indeed is he willing to put it in execution; nor dare
his ministers advise him to an action, which, as it would render them
odious to the people, so it would be a great damage to their own
estates, which all lie below; for the island is the king’s demesne.

But there is still indeed a more weighty reason, why the kings of this
country have been always averse from executing so terrible an action,
unless upon the utmost necessity. For, if the town intended to be
destroyed should have in it any tall rocks, as it generally falls out
in the larger cities, a situation probably chosen at first with a view
to prevent such a catastrophe; or if it abound in high spires, or
pillars of stone, a sudden fall might endanger the bottom or under
surface of the island, which, although it consist, as I have said, of
one entire adamant, two hundred yards thick, might happen to crack by
too great a shock, or burst by approaching too near the fires from the
houses below, as the backs, both of iron and stone, will often do in
our chimneys. Of all this the people are well apprised, and understand
how far to carry their obstinacy, where their liberty or property is
concerned. And the king, when he is highest provoked, and most
determined to press a city to rubbish, orders the island to descend
with great gentleness, out of a pretence of tenderness to his people,
but, indeed, for fear of breaking the adamantine bottom; in which case,
it is the opinion of all their philosophers, that the loadstone could
no longer hold it up, and the whole mass would fall to the ground.

About three years before my arrival among them, while the king was in
his progress over his dominions, there happened an extraordinary
accident which had like to have put a period to the fate of that
monarchy, at least as it is now instituted. Lindalino, the second city
in the kingdom, was the first his majesty visited in his progress.
Three days after his departure the inhabitants, who had often
complained of great oppressions, shut the town gates, seized on the
governor, and with incredible speed and labour erected four large
towers, one at every corner of the city (which is an exact square),
equal in height to a strong pointed rock that stands directly in the
centre of the city. Upon the top of each tower, as well as upon the
rock, they fixed a great loadstone, and in case their design should
fail, they had provided a vast quantity of the most combustible fuel,
hoping to burst therewith the adamantine bottom of the island, if the
loadstone project should miscarry.

It was eight months before the king had perfect notice that the
Lindalinians were in rebellion. He then commanded that the island
should be wafted over the city. The people were unanimous, and had laid
in store of provisions, and a great river runs through the middle of
the town. The king hovered over them several days to deprive them of
the sun and the rain. He ordered many packthreads to be let down, yet
not a person offered to send up a petition, but instead thereof very
bold demands, the redress of all their grievances, great immunities,
the choice of their own governor, and other the like exorbitances. Upon
which his majesty commanded all the inhabitants of the island to cast
great stones from the lower gallery into the town; but the citizens had
provided against this mischief by conveying their persons and effects
into the four towers, and other strong buildings, and vaults
underground.

The king being now determined to reduce this proud people, ordered that
the island should descend gently within forty yards of the top of the
towers and rock. This was accordingly done; but the officers employed
in that work found the descent much speedier than usual, and by turning
the loadstone could not without great difficulty keep it in a firm
position, but found the island inclining to fall. They sent the king
immediate intelligence of this astonishing event, and begged his
majesty’s permission to raise the island higher; the king consented, a
general council was called, and the officers of the loadstone ordered
to attend. One of the oldest and expertest among them obtained leave to
try an experiment, he took a strong line of an hundred yards, and the
island being raised over the town above the attracting power they had
felt, he fastened a piece of adamant to the end of his line, which had
in it a mixture of iron mineral, of the same nature with that whereof
the bottom or lower surface of the island is composed, and from the
lower gallery let it down slowly towards the top of the towers. The
adamant was not descended four yards, before the officer felt it drawn
so strongly downwards that he could hardly pull it back, he then threw
down several small pieces of adamant, and observed that they were all
violently attracted by the top of the tower. The same experiment was
made on the other three towers, and on the rock with the same effect.

This incident broke entirely the king’s measures, and (to dwell no
longer on other circumstances) he was forced to give the town their own
conditions.

I was assured by a great minister that if the island had descended so
near the town as not to be able to raise itself, the citizens were
determined to fix it for ever, to kill the king and all his servants,
and entirely change the government.

By a fundamental law of this realm, neither the king, nor either of his
two eldest sons, are permitted to leave the island; nor the queen, till
she is past child-bearing.


CHAPTER IV.

The author leaves Laputa; is conveyed to Balnibarbi; arrives at the
metropolis. A description of the metropolis, and the country adjoining.
The author hospitably received by a great lord. His conversation with
that lord.


Although I cannot say that I was ill treated in this island, yet I must
confess I thought myself too much neglected, not without some degree of
contempt; for neither prince nor people appeared to be curious in any
part of knowledge, except mathematics and music, wherein I was far
their inferior, and upon that account very little regarded.

On the other side, after having seen all the curiosities of the island,
I was very desirous to leave it, being heartily weary of those people.
They were indeed excellent in two sciences for which I have great
esteem, and wherein I am not unversed; but, at the same time, so
abstracted and involved in speculation, that I never met with such
disagreeable companions. I conversed only with women, tradesmen,
flappers, and court-pages, during two months of my abode there; by
which, at last, I rendered myself extremely contemptible; yet these
were the only people from whom I could ever receive a reasonable
answer.

I had obtained, by hard study, a good degree of knowledge in their
language; I was weary of being confined to an island where I received
so little countenance, and resolved to leave it with the first
opportunity.

There was a great lord at court, nearly related to the king, and for
that reason alone used with respect. He was universally reckoned the
most ignorant and stupid person among them. He had performed many
eminent services for the crown, had great natural and acquired parts,
adorned with integrity and honour; but so ill an ear for music, that
his detractors reported, “he had been often known to beat time in the
wrong place;” neither could his tutors, without extreme difficulty,
teach him to demonstrate the most easy proposition in the mathematics.
He was pleased to show me many marks of favour, often did me the honour
of a visit, desired to be informed in the affairs of Europe, the laws
and customs, the manners and learning of the several countries where I
had travelled. He listened to me with great attention, and made very
wise observations on all I spoke. He had two flappers attending him for
state, but never made use of them, except at court and in visits of
ceremony, and would always command them to withdraw, when we were alone
together.

I entreated this illustrious person, to intercede in my behalf with his
majesty, for leave to depart; which he accordingly did, as he was
pleased to tell me, with regret: for indeed he had made me several
offers very advantageous, which, however, I refused, with expressions
of the highest acknowledgment.

On the 16th day of February I took leave of his majesty and the court.
The king made me a present to the value of about two hundred pounds
English, and my protector, his kinsman, as much more, together with a
letter of recommendation to a friend of his in Lagado, the metropolis.
The island being then hovering over a mountain about two miles from it,
I was let down from the lowest gallery, in the same manner as I had
been taken up.

The continent, as far as it is subject to the monarch of the flying
island, passes under the general name of Balnibarbi; and the
metropolis, as I said before, is called Lagado. I felt some little
satisfaction in finding myself on firm ground. I walked to the city
without any concern, being clad like one of the natives, and
sufficiently instructed to converse with them. I soon found out the
person’s house to whom I was recommended, presented my letter from his
friend the grandee in the island, and was received with much kindness.
This great lord, whose name was Munodi, ordered me an apartment in his
own house, where I continued during my stay, and was entertained in a
most hospitable manner.

The next morning after my arrival, he took me in his chariot to see the
town, which is about half the bigness of London; but the houses very
strangely built, and most of them out of repair. The people in the
streets walked fast, looked wild, their eyes fixed, and were generally
in rags. We passed through one of the town gates, and went about three
miles into the country, where I saw many labourers working with several
sorts of tools in the ground, but was not able to conjecture what they
were about; neither did I observe any expectation either of corn or
grass, although the soil appeared to be excellent. I could not forbear
admiring at these odd appearances, both in town and country; and I made
bold to desire my conductor, that he would be pleased to explain to me,
what could be meant by so many busy heads, hands, and faces, both in
the streets and the fields, because I did not discover any good effects
they produced; but, on the contrary, I never knew a soil so unhappily
cultivated, houses so ill contrived and so ruinous, or a people whose
countenances and habit expressed so much misery and want.

This lord Munodi was a person of the first rank, and had been some
years governor of Lagado; but, by a cabal of ministers, was discharged
for insufficiency. However, the king treated him with tenderness, as a
well-meaning man, but of a low contemptible understanding.

When I gave that free censure of the country and its inhabitants, he
made no further answer than by telling me, “that I had not been long
enough among them to form a judgment; and that the different nations of
the world had different customs;” with other common topics to the same
purpose. But, when we returned to his palace, he asked me “how I liked
the building, what absurdities I observed, and what quarrel I had with
the dress or looks of his domestics?” This he might safely do; because
every thing about him was magnificent, regular, and polite. I answered,
“that his excellency’s prudence, quality, and fortune, had exempted him
from those defects, which folly and beggary had produced in others.” He
said, “if I would go with him to his country-house, about twenty miles
distant, where his estate lay, there would be more leisure for this
kind of conversation.” I told his excellency “that I was entirely at
his disposal;” and accordingly we set out next morning.

During our journey he made me observe the several methods used by
farmers in managing their lands, which to me were wholly unaccountable;
for, except in some very few places, I could not discover one ear of
corn or blade of grass. But, in three hours travelling, the scene was
wholly altered; we came into a most beautiful country; farmers’ houses,
at small distances, neatly built; the fields enclosed, containing
vineyards, corn-grounds, and meadows. Neither do I remember to have
seen a more delightful prospect. His excellency observed my countenance
to clear up; he told me, with a sigh, “that there his estate began, and
would continue the same, till we should come to his house: that his
countrymen ridiculed and despised him, for managing his affairs no
better, and for setting so ill an example to the kingdom; which,
however, was followed by very few, such as were old, and wilful, and
weak like himself.”

We came at length to the house, which was indeed a noble structure,
built according to the best rules of ancient architecture. The
fountains, gardens, walks, avenues, and groves, were all disposed with
exact judgment and taste. I gave due praises to every thing I saw,
whereof his excellency took not the least notice till after supper;
when, there being no third companion, he told me with a very melancholy
air “that he doubted he must throw down his houses in town and country,
to rebuild them after the present mode; destroy all his plantations,
and cast others into such a form as modern usage required, and give the
same directions to all his tenants, unless he would submit to incur the
censure of pride, singularity, affectation, ignorance, caprice, and
perhaps increase his majesty’s displeasure; that the admiration I
appeared to be under would cease or diminish, when he had informed me
of some particulars which, probably, I never heard of at court, the
people there being too much taken up in their own speculations, to have
regard to what passed here below.”

The sum of his discourse was to this effect: “That about forty years
ago, certain persons went up to Laputa, either upon business or
diversion, and, after five months continuance, came back with a very
little smattering in mathematics, but full of volatile spirits acquired
in that airy region: that these persons, upon their return, began to
dislike the management of every thing below, and fell into schemes of
putting all arts, sciences, languages, and mechanics, upon a new foot.
To this end, they procured a royal patent for erecting an academy of
projectors in Lagado; and the humour prevailed so strongly among the
people, that there is not a town of any consequence in the kingdom
without such an academy. In these colleges the professors contrive new
rules and methods of agriculture and building, and new instruments, and
tools for all trades and manufactures; whereby, as they undertake, one
man shall do the work of ten; a palace may be built in a week, of
materials so durable as to last for ever without repairing. All the
fruits of the earth shall come to maturity at whatever season we think
fit to choose, and increase a hundred fold more than they do at
present; with innumerable other happy proposals. The only inconvenience
is, that none of these projects are yet brought to perfection; and in
the mean time, the whole country lies miserably waste, the houses in
ruins, and the people without food or clothes. By all which, instead of
being discouraged, they are fifty times more violently bent upon
prosecuting their schemes, driven equally on by hope and despair: that
as for himself, being not of an enterprising spirit, he was content to
go on in the old forms, to live in the houses his ancestors had built,
and act as they did, in every part of life, without innovation: that
some few other persons of quality and gentry had done the same, but
were looked on with an eye of contempt and ill-will, as enemies to art,
ignorant, and ill common-wealth’s men, preferring their own ease and
sloth before the general improvement of their country.”

His lordship added, “That he would not, by any further particulars,
prevent the pleasure I should certainly take in viewing the grand
academy, whither he was resolved I should go.” He only desired me to
observe a ruined building, upon the side of a mountain about three
miles distant, of which he gave me this account: “That he had a very
convenient mill within half a mile of his house, turned by a current
from a large river, and sufficient for his own family, as well as a
great number of his tenants; that about seven years ago, a club of
those projectors came to him with proposals to destroy this mill, and
build another on the side of that mountain, on the long ridge whereof a
long canal must be cut, for a repository of water, to be conveyed up by
pipes and engines to supply the mill, because the wind and air upon a
height agitated the water, and thereby made it fitter for motion, and
because the water, descending down a declivity, would turn the mill
with half the current of a river whose course is more upon a level.” He
said, “that being then not very well with the court, and pressed by
many of his friends, he complied with the proposal; and after employing
a hundred men for two years, the work miscarried, the projectors went
off, laying the blame entirely upon him, railing at him ever since, and
putting others upon the same experiment, with equal assurance of
success, as well as equal disappointment.”

In a few days we came back to town; and his excellency, considering the
bad character he had in the academy, would not go with me himself, but
recommended me to a friend of his, to bear me company thither. My lord
was pleased to represent me as a great admirer of projects, and a
person of much curiosity and easy belief; which, indeed, was not
without truth; for I had myself been a sort of projector in my younger
days.


CHAPTER V.

The author permitted to see the grand academy of Lagado. The academy
largely described. The arts wherein the professors employ themselves.


This academy is not an entire single building, but a continuation of
several houses on both sides of a street, which growing waste, was
purchased and applied to that use.

I was received very kindly by the warden, and went for many days to the
academy. Every room has in it one or more projectors; and I believe I
could not be in fewer than five hundred rooms.

The first man I saw was of a meagre aspect, with sooty hands and face,
his hair and beard long, ragged, and singed in several places. His
clothes, shirt, and skin, were all of the same colour. He had been
eight years upon a project for extracting sunbeams out of cucumbers,
which were to be put in phials hermetically sealed, and let out to warm
the air in raw inclement summers. He told me, he did not doubt, that,
in eight years more, he should be able to supply the governor’s gardens
with sunshine, at a reasonable rate; but he complained that his stock
was low, and entreated me “to give him something as an encouragement to
ingenuity, especially since this had been a very dear season for
cucumbers.” I made him a small present, for my lord had furnished me
with money on purpose, because he knew their practice of begging from
all who go to see them.

I went into another chamber, but was ready to hasten back, being almost
overcome with a horrible stink. My conductor pressed me forward,
conjuring me in a whisper “to give no offence, which would be highly
resented;” and therefore I durst not so much as stop my nose. The
projector of this cell was the most ancient student of the academy; his
face and beard were of a pale yellow; his hands and clothes daubed over
with filth. When I was presented to him, he gave me a close embrace, a
compliment I could well have excused. His employment, from his first
coming into the academy, was an operation to reduce human excrement to
its original food, by separating the several parts, removing the
tincture which it receives from the gall, making the odour exhale, and
scumming off the saliva. He had a weekly allowance, from the society,
of a vessel filled with human ordure, about the bigness of a Bristol
barrel.

I saw another at work to calcine ice into gunpowder; who likewise
showed me a treatise he had written concerning the malleability of
fire, which he intended to publish.

There was a most ingenious architect, who had contrived a new method
for building houses, by beginning at the roof, and working downward to
the foundation; which he justified to me, by the like practice of those
two prudent insects, the bee and the spider.

There was a man born blind, who had several apprentices in his own
condition: their employment was to mix colours for painters, which
their master taught them to distinguish by feeling and smelling. It was
indeed my misfortune to find them at that time not very perfect in
their lessons, and the professor himself happened to be generally
mistaken. This artist is much encouraged and esteemed by the whole
fraternity.

In another apartment I was highly pleased with a projector who had
found a device of ploughing the ground with hogs, to save the charges
of ploughs, cattle, and labour. The method is this: in an acre of
ground you bury, at six inches distance and eight deep, a quantity of
acorns, dates, chestnuts, and other mast or vegetables, whereof these
animals are fondest; then you drive six hundred or more of them into
the field, where, in a few days, they will root up the whole ground in
search of their food, and make it fit for sowing, at the same time
manuring it with their dung: it is true, upon experiment, they found
the charge and trouble very great, and they had little or no crop.
However it is not doubted, that this invention may be capable of great
improvement.

I went into another room, where the walls and ceiling were all hung
round with cobwebs, except a narrow passage for the artist to go in and
out. At my entrance, he called aloud to me, “not to disturb his webs.”
He lamented “the fatal mistake the world had been so long in, of using
silkworms, while we had such plenty of domestic insects who infinitely
excelled the former, because they understood how to weave, as well as
spin.” And he proposed further, “that by employing spiders, the charge
of dyeing silks should be wholly saved;” whereof I was fully convinced,
when he showed me a vast number of flies most beautifully coloured,
wherewith he fed his spiders, assuring us “that the webs would take a
tincture from them; and as he had them of all hues, he hoped to fit
everybody’s fancy, as soon as he could find proper food for the flies,
of certain gums, oils, and other glutinous matter, to give a strength
and consistence to the threads.”

There was an astronomer, who had undertaken to place a sun-dial upon
the great weathercock on the town-house, by adjusting the annual and
diurnal motions of the earth and sun, so as to answer and coincide with
all accidental turnings of the wind.

I was complaining of a small fit of the colic, upon which my conductor
led me into a room where a great physician resided, who was famous for
curing that disease, by contrary operations from the same instrument.
He had a large pair of bellows, with a long slender muzzle of ivory.
This he conveyed eight inches up the anus, and drawing in the wind, he
affirmed he could make the guts as lank as a dried bladder. But when
the disease was more stubborn and violent, he let in the muzzle while
the bellows were full of wind, which he discharged into the body of the
patient; then withdrew the instrument to replenish it, clapping his
thumb strongly against the orifice of the fundament; and this being
repeated three or four times, the adventitious wind would rush out,
bringing the noxious along with it, (like water put into a pump), and
the patient recovered. I saw him try both experiments upon a dog, but
could not discern any effect from the former. After the latter the
animal was ready to burst, and made so violent a discharge as was very
offensive to me and my companions. The dog died on the spot, and we
left the doctor endeavouring to recover him, by the same operation.

I visited many other apartments, but shall not trouble my reader with
all the curiosities I observed, being studious of brevity.

I had hitherto seen only one side of the academy, the other being
appropriated to the advancers of speculative learning, of whom I shall
say something, when I have mentioned one illustrious person more, who
is called among them “the universal artist.” He told us “he had been
thirty years employing his thoughts for the improvement of human life.”
He had two large rooms full of wonderful curiosities, and fifty men at
work. Some were condensing air into a dry tangible substance, by
extracting the nitre, and letting the aqueous or fluid particles
percolate; others softening marble, for pillows and pin-cushions;
others petrifying the hoofs of a living horse, to preserve them from
foundering. The artist himself was at that time busy upon two great
designs; the first, to sow land with chaff, wherein he affirmed the
true seminal virtue to be contained, as he demonstrated by several
experiments, which I was not skilful enough to comprehend. The other
was, by a certain composition of gums, minerals, and vegetables,
outwardly applied, to prevent the growth of wool upon two young lambs;
and he hoped, in a reasonable time to propagate the breed of naked
sheep, all over the kingdom.

We crossed a walk to the other part of the academy, where, as I have
already said, the projectors in speculative learning resided.

The first professor I saw, was in a very large room, with forty pupils
about him. After salutation, observing me to look earnestly upon a
frame, which took up the greatest part of both the length and breadth
of the room, he said, “Perhaps I might wonder to see him employed in a
project for improving speculative knowledge, by practical and
mechanical operations. But the world would soon be sensible of its
usefulness; and he flattered himself, that a more noble, exalted
thought never sprang in any other man’s head. Every one knew how
laborious the usual method is of attaining to arts and sciences;
whereas, by his contrivance, the most ignorant person, at a reasonable
charge, and with a little bodily labour, might write books in
philosophy, poetry, politics, laws, mathematics, and theology, without
the least assistance from genius or study.” He then led me to the
frame, about the sides, whereof all his pupils stood in ranks. It was
twenty feet square, placed in the middle of the room. The superficies
was composed of several bits of wood, about the bigness of a die, but
some larger than others. They were all linked together by slender
wires. These bits of wood were covered, on every square, with paper
pasted on them; and on these papers were written all the words of their
language, in their several moods, tenses, and declensions; but without
any order. The professor then desired me “to observe; for he was going
to set his engine at work.” The pupils, at his command, took each of
them hold of an iron handle, whereof there were forty fixed round the
edges of the frame; and giving them a sudden turn, the whole
disposition of the words was entirely changed. He then commanded
six-and-thirty of the lads, to read the several lines softly, as they
appeared upon the frame; and where they found three or four words
together that might make part of a sentence, they dictated to the four
remaining boys, who were scribes. This work was repeated three or four
times, and at every turn, the engine was so contrived, that the words
shifted into new places, as the square bits of wood moved upside down.

The frame


Six hours a day the young students were employed in this labour; and
the professor showed me several volumes in large folio, already
collected, of broken sentences, which he intended to piece together,
and out of those rich materials, to give the world a complete body of
all arts and sciences; which, however, might be still improved, and
much expedited, if the public would raise a fund for making and
employing five hundred such frames in Lagado, and oblige the managers
to contribute in common their several collections.

He assured me “that this invention had employed all his thoughts from
his youth; that he had emptied the whole vocabulary into his frame, and
made the strictest computation of the general proportion there is in
books between the numbers of particles, nouns, and verbs, and other
parts of speech.”

I made my humblest acknowledgment to this illustrious person, for his
great communicativeness; and promised, “if ever I had the good fortune
to return to my native country, that I would do him justice, as the
sole inventor of this wonderful machine;” the form and contrivance of
which I desired leave to delineate on paper, as in the figure here
annexed. I told him, “although it were the custom of our learned in
Europe to steal inventions from each other, who had thereby at least
this advantage, that it became a controversy which was the right owner;
yet I would take such caution, that he should have the honour entire,
without a rival.”

We next went to the school of languages, where three professors sat in
consultation upon improving that of their own country.

The first project was to shorten discourse by cutting polysyllables
into one, and leaving out verbs and participles, because, in reality,
all things imaginable are but nouns.

The other project was, a scheme for entirely abolishing all words
whatsoever; and this was urged as a great advantage in point of health,
as well as brevity. For it is plain, that every word we speak is, in
some degree, a diminution of our lungs by corrosion, and, consequently,
contributes to the shortening of our lives. An expedient was therefore
offered, “that since words are only names for things, it would be
more convenient for all men to carry about them such things as were
necessary to express a particular business they are to discourse on.”
And this invention would certainly have taken place, to the great ease
as well as health of the subject, if the women, in conjunction with the
vulgar and illiterate, had not threatened to raise a rebellion unless
they might be allowed the liberty to speak with their tongues, after
the manner of their forefathers; such constant irreconcilable enemies
to science are the common people. However, many of the most learned and
wise adhere to the new scheme of expressing themselves by things; which
has only this inconvenience attending it, that if a man’s business be
very great, and of various kinds, he must be obliged, in proportion, to
carry a greater bundle of things upon his back, unless he can afford
one or two strong servants to attend him. I have often beheld two of
those sages almost sinking under the weight of their packs, like
pedlars among us, who, when they met in the street, would lay down
their loads, open their sacks, and hold conversation for an hour
together; then put up their implements, help each other to resume their
burdens, and take their leave.

But for short conversations, a man may carry implements in his pockets,
and under his arms, enough to supply him; and in his house, he cannot
be at a loss. Therefore the room where company meet who practise this
art, is full of all things, ready at hand, requisite to furnish matter
for this kind of artificial converse.

Another great advantage proposed by this invention was, that it would
serve as a universal language, to be understood in all civilised
nations, whose goods and utensils are generally of the same kind, or
nearly resembling, so that their uses might easily be comprehended. And
thus ambassadors would be qualified to treat with foreign princes, or
ministers of state, to whose tongues they were utter strangers.

I was at the mathematical school, where the master taught his pupils
after a method scarce imaginable to us in Europe. The proposition, and
demonstration, were fairly written on a thin wafer, with ink composed
of a cephalic tincture. This, the student was to swallow upon a fasting
stomach, and for three days following, eat nothing but bread and water.
As the wafer digested, the tincture mounted to his brain, bearing the
proposition along with it. But the success has not hitherto been
answerable, partly by some error in the quantum or composition, and
partly by the perverseness of lads, to whom this bolus is so nauseous,
that they generally steal aside, and discharge it upwards, before it
can operate; neither have they been yet persuaded to use so long an
abstinence, as the prescription requires.


CHAPTER VI.

A further account of the academy. The author proposes some
improvements, which are honourably received.


In the school of political projectors, I was but ill entertained; the
professors appearing, in my judgment, wholly out of their senses, which
is a scene that never fails to make me melancholy. These unhappy people
were proposing schemes for persuading monarchs to choose favourites
upon the score of their wisdom, capacity, and virtue; of teaching
ministers to consult the public good; of rewarding merit, great
abilities, eminent services; of instructing princes to know their true
interest, by placing it on the same foundation with that of their
people; of choosing for employments persons qualified to exercise them,
with many other wild, impossible chimeras, that never entered before
into the heart of man to conceive; and confirmed in me the old
observation, “that there is nothing so extravagant and irrational,
which some philosophers have not maintained for truth.”

But, however, I shall so far do justice to this part of the Academy, as
to acknowledge that all of them were not so visionary. There was a most
ingenious doctor, who seemed to be perfectly versed in the whole nature
and system of government. This illustrious person had very usefully
employed his studies, in finding out effectual remedies for all
diseases and corruptions to which the several kinds of public
administration are subject, by the vices or infirmities of those who
govern, as well as by the licentiousness of those who are to obey. For
instance: whereas all writers and reasoners have agreed, that there is
a strict universal resemblance between the natural and the political
body; can there be any thing more evident, than that the health of both
must be preserved, and the diseases cured, by the same prescriptions?
It is allowed, that senates and great councils are often troubled with
redundant, ebullient, and other peccant humours; with many diseases of
the head, and more of the heart; with strong convulsions, with grievous
contractions of the nerves and sinews in both hands, but especially the
right; with spleen, flatus, vertigos, and deliriums; with scrofulous
tumours, full of fetid purulent matter; with sour frothy ructations:
with canine appetites, and crudeness of digestion, besides many others,
needless to mention. This doctor therefore proposed, “that upon the
meeting of the senate, certain physicians should attend it the three
first days of their sitting, and at the close of each day’s debate feel
the pulses of every senator; after which, having maturely considered
and consulted upon the nature of the several maladies, and the methods
of cure, they should on the fourth day return to the senate house,
attended by their apothecaries stored with proper medicines; and before
the members sat, administer to each of them lenitives, aperitives,
abstersives, corrosives, restringents, palliatives, laxatives,
cephalalgics, icterics, apophlegmatics, acoustics, as their several
cases required; and, according as these medicines should operate,
repeat, alter, or omit them, at the next meeting.”

This project could not be of any great expense to the public; and might
in my poor opinion, be of much use for the despatch of business, in
those countries where senates have any share in the legislative power;
beget unanimity, shorten debates, open a few mouths which are now
closed, and close many more which are now open; curb the petulancy of
the young, and correct the positiveness of the old; rouse the stupid,
and damp the pert.

Again, because it is a general complaint, that the favourites of
princes are troubled with short and weak memories; the same doctor
proposed, “that whoever attended a first minister, after having told
his business, with the utmost brevity and in the plainest words,
should, at his departure, give the said minister a tweak by the nose,
or a kick in the belly, or tread on his corns, or lug him thrice by
both ears, or run a pin into his breech; or pinch his arm black and
blue, to prevent forgetfulness; and at every levee day, repeat the same
operation, till the business were done, or absolutely refused.”

He likewise directed, “that every senator in the great council of a
nation, after he had delivered his opinion, and argued in the defence
of it, should be obliged to give his vote directly contrary; because if
that were done, the result would infallibly terminate in the good of
the public.”

When parties in a state are violent, he offered a wonderful contrivance
to reconcile them. The method is this: You take a hundred leaders of
each party; you dispose them into couples of such whose heads are
nearest of a size; then let two nice operators saw off the occiput of
each couple at the same time, in such a manner that the brain may be
equally divided. Let the occiputs, thus cut off, be interchanged,
applying each to the head of his opposite party-man. It seems indeed to
be a work that requires some exactness, but the professor assured us,
“that if it were dexterously performed, the cure would be infallible.”
For he argued thus: “that the two half brains being left to debate the
matter between themselves within the space of one skull, would soon
come to a good understanding, and produce that moderation, as well as
regularity of thinking, so much to be wished for in the heads of those,
who imagine they come into the world only to watch and govern its
motion: and as to the difference of brains, in quantity or quality,
among those who are directors in faction,” the doctor assured us, from
his own knowledge, that “it was a perfect trifle.”

I heard a very warm debate between two professors, about the most
commodious and effectual ways and means of raising money, without
grieving the subject. The first affirmed, “the justest method would be,
to lay a certain tax upon vices and folly; and the sum fixed upon every
man to be rated, after the fairest manner, by a jury of his
neighbours.” The second was of an opinion directly contrary; “to tax
those qualities of body and mind, for which men chiefly value
themselves; the rate to be more or less, according to the degrees of
excelling; the decision whereof should be left entirely to their own
breast.” The highest tax was upon men who are the greatest favourites
of the other sex, and the assessments, according to the number and
nature of the favours they have received; for which, they are allowed
to be their own vouchers. Wit, valour, and politeness, were likewise
proposed to be largely taxed, and collected in the same manner, by
every person’s giving his own word for the quantum of what he
possessed. But as to honour, justice, wisdom, and learning, they should
not be taxed at all; because they are qualifications of so singular a
kind, that no man will either allow them in his neighbour or value them
in himself.

The women were proposed to be taxed according to their beauty and skill
in dressing, wherein they had the same privilege with the men, to be
determined by their own judgment. But constancy, chastity, good sense,
and good nature, were not rated, because they would not bear the charge
of collecting.

To keep senators in the interest of the crown, it was proposed that the
members should raffle for employments; every man first taking an oath,
and giving security, that he would vote for the court, whether he won
or not; after which, the losers had, in their turn, the liberty of
raffling upon the next vacancy. Thus, hope and expectation would be
kept alive; none would complain of broken promises, but impute their
disappointments wholly to fortune, whose shoulders are broader and
stronger than those of a ministry.

Another professor showed me a large paper of instructions for
discovering plots and conspiracies against the government. He advised
great statesmen to examine into the diet of all suspected persons;
their times of eating; upon which side they lay in bed; with which hand
they wipe their posteriors; take a strict view of their excrements,
and, from the colour, the odour, the taste, the consistence, the
crudeness or maturity of digestion, form a judgment of their thoughts
and designs; because men are never so serious, thoughtful, and intent,
as when they are at stool, which he found by frequent experiment; for,
in such conjunctures, when he used, merely as a trial, to consider
which was the best way of murdering the king, his ordure would have a
tincture of green; but quite different, when he thought only of raising
an insurrection, or burning the metropolis.

The whole discourse was written with great acuteness, containing many
observations, both curious and useful for politicians; but, as I
conceived, not altogether complete. This I ventured to tell the author,
and offered, if he pleased, to supply him with some additions. He
received my proposition with more compliance than is usual among
writers, especially those of the projecting species, professing “he
would be glad to receive further information.”

I told him, “that in the kingdom of Tribnia, [454a] by the natives
called Langden, [454b] where I had sojourned some time in my travels,
the bulk of the people consist in a manner wholly of discoverers,
witnesses, informers, accusers, prosecutors, evidences, swearers,
together with their several subservient and subaltern instruments, all
under the colours, the conduct, and the pay of ministers of state, and
their deputies. The plots, in that kingdom, are usually the workmanship
of those persons who desire to raise their own characters of profound
politicians; to restore new vigour to a crazy administration; to stifle
or divert general discontents; to fill their coffers with forfeitures;
and raise, or sink the opinion of public credit, as either shall best
answer their private advantage. It is first agreed and settled among
them, what suspected persons shall be accused of a plot; then,
effectual care is taken to secure all their letters and papers, and put
the owners in chains. These papers are delivered to a set of artists,
very dexterous in finding out the mysterious meanings of words,
syllables, and letters: for instance, they can discover a close stool,
to signify a privy council; a flock of geese, a senate; a lame dog, an
invader; a codshead; a ——; the plague, a standing army; a buzzard, a
prime minister; the gout, a high priest; a gibbet, a secretary of
state; a chamber pot, a committee of grandees; a sieve, a court lady; a
broom, a revolution; a mouse-trap, an employment; a bottomless pit, a
treasury; a sink, a court; a cap and bells, a favourite; a broken reed,
a court of justice; an empty tun, a general; a running sore, the
administration. [455]

“When this method fails, they have two others more effectual, which the
learned among them call acrostics and anagrams. First, they can
decipher all initial letters into political meanings. Thus N. shall
signify a plot; B. a regiment of horse; L. a fleet at sea; or,
secondly, by transposing the letters of the alphabet in any suspected
paper, they can lay open the deepest designs of a discontented party.
So, for example, if I should say, in a letter to a friend, ‘Our brother
Tom has just got the piles,’ a skilful decipherer would discover, that
the same letters which compose that sentence, may be analysed into the
following words, ‘Resist, a plot is brought home; The tour.’ And this
is the anagrammatic method.”

The professor made me great acknowledgments for communicating these
observations, and promised to make honourable mention of me in his
treatise.

I saw nothing in this country that could invite me to a longer
continuance, and began to think of returning home to England.


CHAPTER VII.

The author leaves Lagado: arrives at Maldonada. No ship ready. He takes
a short voyage to Glubbdubdrib. His reception by the governor.


The continent, of which this kingdom is apart, extends itself, as I
have reason to believe, eastward, to that unknown tract of America
westward of California; and north, to the Pacific Ocean, which is not
above a hundred and fifty miles from Lagado; where there is a good
port, and much commerce with the great island of Luggnagg, situated to
the north-west about 29 degrees north latitude, and 140 longitude. This
island of Luggnagg stands south-eastward of Japan, about a hundred
leagues distant. There is a strict alliance between the Japanese
emperor and the king of Luggnagg; which affords frequent opportunities
of sailing from one island to the other. I determined therefore to
direct my course this way, in order to direct my return to Europe. I
hired two mules, with a guide, to show me the way, and carry my small
baggage. I took leave of my noble protector, who had shown me so much
favour, and made me a generous present at my departure.

My journey was without any accident or adventure worth relating. When I
arrived at the port of Maldonada (for so it is called) there was no
ship in the harbour bound for Luggnagg, nor likely to be in some time.
The town is about as large as Portsmouth. I soon fell into some
acquaintance, and was very hospitably received. A gentleman of
distinction said to me, “that since the ships bound for Luggnagg could
not be ready in less than a month, it might be no disagreeable
amusement for me to take a trip to the little island of Glubbdubdrib,
about five leagues off to the south-west.” He offered himself and a
friend to accompany me, and that I should be provided with a small
convenient bark for the voyage.

Glubbdubdrib, as nearly as I can interpret the word, signifies the
island of sorcerers or magicians. It is about one third as large as the
Isle of Wight, and extremely fruitful: it is governed by the head of a
certain tribe, who are all magicians. This tribe marries only among
each other, and the eldest in succession is prince or governor. He has
a noble palace, and a park of about three thousand acres, surrounded by
a wall of hewn stone twenty feet high. In this park are several small
enclosures for cattle, corn, and gardening.

The governor and his family are served and attended by domestics of a
kind somewhat unusual. By his skill in necromancy he has a power of
calling whom he pleases from the dead, and commanding their service for
twenty-four hours, but no longer; nor can he call the same persons up
again in less than three months, except upon very extraordinary
occasions.

When we arrived at the island, which was about eleven in the morning,
one of the gentlemen who accompanied me went to the governor, and
desired admittance for a stranger, who came on purpose to have the
honour of attending on his highness. This was immediately granted, and
we all three entered the gate of the palace between two rows of guards,
armed and dressed after a very antic manner, and with something in
their countenances that made my flesh creep with a horror I cannot
express. We passed through several apartments, between servants of the
same sort, ranked on each side as before, till we came to the chamber
of presence; where, after three profound obeisances, and a few general
questions, we were permitted to sit on three stools, near the lowest
step of his highness’s throne. He understood the language of
Balnibarbi, although it was different from that of this island. He
desired me to give him some account of my travels; and, to let me see
that I should be treated without ceremony, he dismissed all his
attendants with a turn of his finger; at which, to my great
astonishment, they vanished in an instant, like visions in a dream when
we awake on a sudden. I could not recover myself in some time, till the
governor assured me, “that I should receive no hurt;” and observing my
two companions to be under no concern, who had been often entertained
in the same manner, I began to take courage, and related to his
highness a short history of my several adventures; yet not without some
hesitation, and frequently looking behind me to the place where I had
seen those domestic spectres. I had the honour to dine with the
governor, where a new set of ghosts served up the meat, and waited at
table. I now observed myself to be less terrified than I had been in
the morning. I stayed till sunset, but humbly desired his highness to
excuse me for not accepting his invitation of lodging in the palace. My
two friends and I lay at a private house in the town adjoining, which
is the capital of this little island; and the next morning we returned
to pay our duty to the governor, as he was pleased to command us.

After this manner we continued in the island for ten days, most part of
every day with the governor, and at night in our lodging. I soon grew
so familiarized to the sight of spirits, that after the third or fourth
time they gave me no emotion at all: or, if I had any apprehensions
left, my curiosity prevailed over them. For his highness the governor
ordered me “to call up whatever persons I would choose to name, and in
whatever numbers, among all the dead from the beginning of the world to
the present time, and command them to answer any questions I should
think fit to ask; with this condition, that my questions must be
confined within the compass of the times they lived in. And one thing I
might depend upon, that they would certainly tell me the truth, for
lying was a talent of no use in the lower world.”

I made my humble acknowledgments to his highness for so great a favour.
We were in a chamber, from whence there was a fair prospect into the
park. And because my first inclination was to be entertained with
scenes of pomp and magnificence, I desired to see Alexander the Great
at the head of his army, just after the battle of Arbela: which, upon a
motion of the governor’s finger, immediately appeared in a large field,
under the window where we stood. Alexander was called up into the room:
it was with great difficulty that I understood his Greek, and had but
little of my own. He assured me upon his honour “that he was not
poisoned, but died of a bad fever by excessive drinking.”

Next, I saw Hannibal passing the Alps, who told me “he had not a drop
of vinegar in his camp.”

I saw Cæsar and Pompey at the head of their troops, just ready to
engage. I saw the former, in his last great triumph. I desired that the
senate of Rome might appear before me, in one large chamber, and an
assembly of somewhat a later age in counterview, in another. The first
seemed to be an assembly of heroes and demigods; the other, a knot of
pedlars, pick-pockets, highwaymen, and bullies.

The governor, at my request, gave the sign for Cæsar and Brutus to
advance towards us. I was struck with a profound veneration at the
sight of Brutus, and could easily discover the most consummate virtue,
the greatest intrepidity and firmness of mind, the truest love of his
country, and general benevolence for mankind, in every lineament of his
countenance. I observed, with much pleasure, that these two persons
were in good intelligence with each other; and Cæsar freely confessed
to me, “that the greatest actions of his own life were not equal, by
many degrees, to the glory of taking it away.” I had the honour to have
much conversation with Brutus; and was told, “that his ancestor Junius,
Socrates, Epaminondas, Cato the younger, Sir Thomas More, and himself
were perpetually together:” a sextumvirate, to which all the ages of
the world cannot add a seventh.

It would be tedious to trouble the reader with relating what vast
numbers of illustrious persons were called up to gratify that
insatiable desire I had to see the world in every period of antiquity
placed before me. I chiefly fed my eyes with beholding the destroyers
of tyrants and usurpers, and the restorers of liberty to oppressed and
injured nations. But it is impossible to express the satisfaction I
received in my own mind, after such a manner as to make it a suitable
entertainment to the reader.


CHAPTER VIII.

A further account of Glubbdubdrib. Ancient and modern history
corrected.


Having a desire to see those ancients who were most renowned for wit
and learning, I set apart one day on purpose. I proposed that Homer and
Aristotle might appear at the head of all their commentators; but these
were so numerous, that some hundreds were forced to attend in the
court, and outward rooms of the palace. I knew, and could distinguish
those two heroes, at first sight, not only from the crowd, but from
each other. Homer was the taller and comelier person of the two, walked
very erect for one of his age, and his eyes were the most quick and
piercing I ever beheld. Aristotle stooped much, and made use of a
staff. His visage was meagre, his hair lank and thin, and his voice
hollow. I soon discovered that both of them were perfect strangers to
the rest of the company, and had never seen or heard of them before;
and I had a whisper from a ghost who shall be nameless, “that these
commentators always kept in the most distant quarters from their
principals, in the lower world, through a consciousness of shame and
guilt, because they had so horribly misrepresented the meaning of those
authors to posterity.” I introduced Didymus and Eustathius to Homer,
and prevailed on him to treat them better than perhaps they deserved,
for he soon found they wanted a genius to enter into the spirit of a
poet. But Aristotle was out of all patience with the account I gave him
of Scotus and Ramus, as I presented them to him; and he asked them,
“whether the rest of the tribe were as great dunces as themselves?”

I then desired the governor to call up Descartes and Gassendi, with
whom I prevailed to explain their systems to Aristotle. This great
philosopher freely acknowledged his own mistakes in natural philosophy,
because he proceeded in many things upon conjecture, as all men must
do; and he found that Gassendi, who had made the doctrine of Epicurus
as palatable as he could, and the vortices of Descartes, were equally
to be exploded. He predicted the same fate to attraction, whereof the
present learned are such zealous asserters. He said, “that new systems
of nature were but new fashions, which would vary in every age; and
even those, who pretend to demonstrate them from mathematical
principles, would flourish but a short period of time, and be out of
vogue when that was determined.”

I spent five days in conversing with many others of the ancient
learned. I saw most of the first Roman emperors. I prevailed on the
governor to call up Heliogabalus’s cooks to dress us a dinner, but they
could not show us much of their skill, for want of materials. A helot
of Agesilaus made us a dish of Spartan broth, but I was not able to get
down a second spoonful.

The two gentlemen, who conducted me to the island, were pressed by
their private affairs to return in three days, which I employed in
seeing some of the modern dead, who had made the greatest figure, for
two or three hundred years past, in our own and other countries of
Europe; and having been always a great admirer of old illustrious
families, I desired the governor would call up a dozen or two of kings,
with their ancestors in order for eight or nine generations. But my
disappointment was grievous and unexpected. For, instead of a long
train with royal diadems, I saw in one family two fiddlers, three
spruce courtiers, and an Italian prelate. In another, a barber, an
abbot, and two cardinals. I have too great a veneration for crowned
heads, to dwell any longer on so nice a subject. But as to counts,
marquises, dukes, earls, and the like, I was not so scrupulous. And I
confess, it was not without some pleasure, that I found myself able to
trace the particular features, by which certain families are
distinguished, up to their originals. I could plainly discover whence
one family derives a long chin; why a second has abounded with knaves
for two generations, and fools for two more; why a third happened to be
crack-brained, and a fourth to be sharpers; whence it came, what
Polydore Virgil says of a certain great house, Nec vir fortis, nec
femina casta; how cruelty, falsehood, and cowardice, grew to be
characteristics by which certain families are distinguished as much as
by their coats of arms; who first brought the pox into a noble house,
which has lineally descended scrofulous tumours to their posterity.
Neither could I wonder at all this, when I saw such an interruption of
lineages, by pages, lackeys, valets, coachmen, gamesters, fiddlers,
players, captains, and pickpockets.

I was chiefly disgusted with modern history. For having strictly
examined all the persons of greatest name in the courts of princes, for
a hundred years past, I found how the world had been misled by
prostitute writers, to ascribe the greatest exploits in war, to
cowards; the wisest counsel, to fools; sincerity, to flatterers; Roman
virtue, to betrayers of their country; piety, to atheists; chastity, to
sodomites; truth, to informers: how many innocent and excellent persons
had been condemned to death or banishment by the practising of great
ministers upon the corruption of judges, and the malice of factions:
how many villains had been exalted to the highest places of trust,
power, dignity, and profit: how great a share in the motions and events
of courts, councils, and senates might be challenged by bawds, whores,
pimps, parasites, and buffoons. How low an opinion I had of human
wisdom and integrity, when I was truly informed of the springs and
motives of great enterprises and revolutions in the world, and of the
contemptible accidents to which they owed their success.

Here I discovered the roguery and ignorance of those who pretend to
write anecdotes, or secret history; who send so many kings to their
graves with a cup of poison; will repeat the discourse between a prince
and chief minister, where no witness was by; unlock the thoughts and
cabinets of ambassadors and secretaries of state; and have the
perpetual misfortune to be mistaken. Here I discovered the true causes
of many great events that have surprised the world; how a whore can
govern the back-stairs, the back-stairs a council, and the council a
senate. A general confessed, in my presence, “that he got a victory
purely by the force of cowardice and ill conduct;” and an admiral,
“that, for want of proper intelligence, he beat the enemy, to whom he
intended to betray the fleet.” Three kings protested to me, “that in
their whole reigns they never did once prefer any person of merit,
unless by mistake, or treachery of some minister in whom they confided;
neither would they do it if they were to live again:” and they showed,
with great strength of reason, “that the royal throne could not be
supported without corruption, because that positive, confident, restiff
temper, which virtue infused into a man, was a perpetual clog to public
business.”

I had the curiosity to inquire in a particular manner, by what methods
great numbers had procured to themselves high titles of honour, and
prodigious estates; and I confined my inquiry to a very modern period:
however, without grating upon present times, because I would be sure to
give no offence even to foreigners (for I hope the reader need not be
told, that I do not in the least intend my own country, in what I say
upon this occasion,) a great number of persons concerned were called
up; and, upon a very slight examination, discovered such a scene of
infamy, that I cannot reflect upon it without some seriousness.
Perjury, oppression, subornation, fraud, pandarism, and the like
infirmities, were among the most excusable arts they had to mention;
and for these I gave, as it was reasonable, great allowance. But when
some confessed they owed their greatness and wealth to sodomy, or
incest; others, to the prostituting of their own wives and daughters;
others, to the betraying of their country or their prince; some, to
poisoning; more to the perverting of justice, in order to destroy the
innocent, I hope I may be pardoned, if these discoveries inclined me a
little to abate of that profound veneration, which I am naturally apt
to pay to persons of high rank, who ought to be treated with the utmost
respect due to their sublime dignity, by us their inferiors.

I had often read of some great services done to princes and states, and
desired to see the persons by whom those services were performed. Upon
inquiry I was told, “that their names were to be found on no record,
except a few of them, whom history has represented as the vilest of
rogues and traitors.” As to the rest, I had never once heard of them.
They all appeared with dejected looks, and in the meanest habit; most
of them telling me, “they died in poverty and disgrace, and the rest on
a scaffold or a gibbet.”

Among others, there was one person, whose case appeared a little
singular. He had a youth about eighteen years old standing by his side.
He told me, “he had for many years been commander of a ship; and in the
sea fight at Actium had the good fortune to break through the enemy’s
great line of battle, sink three of their capital ships, and take a
fourth, which was the sole cause of Antony’s flight, and of the victory
that ensued; that the youth standing by him, his only son, was killed
in the action.” He added, “that upon the confidence of some merit, the
war being at an end, he went to Rome, and solicited at the court of
Augustus to be preferred to a greater ship, whose commander had been
killed; but, without any regard to his pretensions, it was given to a
boy who had never seen the sea, the son of Libertina, who waited on one
of the emperor’s mistresses. Returning back to his own vessel, he was
charged with neglect of duty, and the ship given to a favourite page of
Publicola, the vice-admiral; whereupon he retired to a poor farm at a
great distance from Rome, and there ended his life.” I was so curious
to know the truth of this story, that I desired Agrippa might be
called, who was admiral in that fight. He appeared, and confirmed the
whole account: but with much more advantage to the captain, whose
modesty had extenuated or concealed a great part of his merit.

I was surprised to find corruption grown so high and so quick in that
empire, by the force of luxury so lately introduced; which made me less
wonder at many parallel cases in other countries, where vices of all
kinds have reigned so much longer, and where the whole praise, as well
as pillage, has been engrossed by the chief commander, who perhaps had
the least title to either.

As every person called up made exactly the same appearance he had done
in the world, it gave me melancholy reflections to observe how much the
race of humankind was degenerated among us within these hundred years
past; how the pox, under all its consequences and denominations had
altered every lineament of an English countenance; shortened the size
of bodies, unbraced the nerves, relaxed the sinews and muscles,
introduced a sallow complexion, and rendered the flesh loose and
rancid.

I descended so low, as to desire some English yeoman of the old stamp
might be summoned to appear; once so famous for the simplicity of their
manners, diet, and dress; for justice in their dealings; for their true
spirit of liberty; for their valour, and love of their country. Neither
could I be wholly unmoved, after comparing the living with the dead,
when I considered how all these pure native virtues were prostituted
for a piece of money by their grand-children; who, in selling their
votes and managing at elections, have acquired every vice and
corruption that can possibly be learned in a court.


CHAPTER IX.

The author returns to Maldonada. Sails to the kingdom of Luggnagg. The
author confined. He is sent for to court. The manner of his admittance.
The king’s great lenity to his subjects.


The day of our departure being come, I took leave of his highness, the
Governor of Glubbdubdrib, and returned with my two companions to
Maldonada, where, after a fortnight’s waiting, a ship was ready to sail
for Luggnagg. The two gentlemen, and some others, were so generous and
kind as to furnish me with provisions, and see me on board. I was a
month in this voyage. We had one violent storm, and were under a
necessity of steering westward to get into the trade wind, which holds
for above sixty leagues. On the 21st of April, 1708, we sailed into the
river of Clumegnig, which is a seaport town, at the south-east point of
Luggnagg. We cast anchor within a league of the town, and made a signal
for a pilot. Two of them came on board in less than half an hour, by
whom we were guided between certain shoals and rocks, which are very
dangerous in the passage, to a large basin, where a fleet may ride in
safety within a cable’s length of the town-wall.

Some of our sailors, whether out of treachery or inadvertence, had
informed the pilots “that I was a stranger, and great traveller;”
whereof these gave notice to a custom-house officer, by whom I was
examined very strictly upon my landing. This officer spoke to me in the
language of Balnibarbi, which, by the force of much commerce, is
generally understood in that town, especially by seamen and those
employed in the customs. I gave him a short account of some
particulars, and made my story as plausible and consistent as I could;
but I thought it necessary to disguise my country, and call myself a
Hollander; because my intentions were for Japan, and I knew the Dutch
were the only Europeans permitted to enter into that kingdom. I
therefore told the officer, “that having been shipwrecked on the coast
of Balnibarbi, and cast on a rock, I was received up into Laputa, or
the flying island (of which he had often heard), and was now
endeavouring to get to Japan, whence I might find a convenience of
returning to my own country.” The officer said, “I must be confined
till he could receive orders from court, for which he would write
immediately, and hoped to receive an answer in a fortnight.” I was
carried to a convenient lodging with a sentry placed at the door;
however, I had the liberty of a large garden, and was treated with
humanity enough, being maintained all the time at the king’s charge. I
was invited by several persons, chiefly out of curiosity, because it
was reported that I came from countries very remote, of which they had
never heard.

I hired a young man, who came in the same ship, to be an interpreter;
he was a native of Luggnagg, but had lived some years at Maldonada, and
was a perfect master of both languages. By his assistance, I was able
to hold a conversation with those who came to visit me; but this
consisted only of their questions, and my answers.

The despatch came from court about the time we expected. It contained a
warrant for conducting me and my retinue to Traldragdubh, or
Trildrogdrib (for it is pronounced both ways as near as I can
remember), by a party of ten horse. All my retinue was that poor lad
for an interpreter, whom I persuaded into my service, and, at my humble
request, we had each of us a mule to ride on. A messenger was
despatched half a day’s journey before us, to give the king notice of
my approach, and to desire, “that his majesty would please to appoint a
day and hour, when it would by his gracious pleasure that I might have
the honour to lick the dust before his footstool.” This is the court
style, and I found it to be more than matter of form: for, upon my
admittance two days after my arrival, I was commanded to crawl upon my
belly, and lick the floor as I advanced; but, on account of my being a
stranger, care was taken to have it made so clean, that the dust was
not offensive. However, this was a peculiar grace, not allowed to any
but persons of the highest rank, when they desire an admittance. Nay,
sometimes the floor is strewed with dust on purpose, when the person to
be admitted happens to have powerful enemies at court; and I have seen
a great lord with his mouth so crammed, that when he had crept to the
proper distance from the throne; he was not able to speak a word.
Neither is there any remedy; because it is capital for those who
receive an audience to spit or wipe their mouths in his majesty’s
presence. There is indeed another custom, which I cannot altogether
approve of: when the king has a mind to put any of his nobles to death
in a gentle indulgent manner, he commands the floor to be strewed with
a certain brown powder of a deadly composition, which being licked up,
infallibly kills him in twenty-four hours. But in justice to this
prince’s great clemency, and the care he has of his subjects’ lives
(wherein it were much to be wished that the Monarchs of Europe would
imitate him), it must be mentioned for his honour, that strict orders
are given to have the infected parts of the floor well washed after
every such execution, which, if his domestics neglect, they are in
danger of incurring his royal displeasure. I myself heard him give
directions, that one of his pages should be whipped, whose turn it was
to give notice about washing the floor after an execution, but
maliciously had omitted it; by which neglect a young lord of great
hopes, coming to an audience, was unfortunately poisoned, although the
king at that time had no design against his life. But this good prince
was so gracious as to forgive the poor page his whipping, upon promise
that he would do so no more, without special orders.

To return from this digression. When I had crept within four yards of
the throne, I raised myself gently upon my knees, and then striking my
forehead seven times against the ground, I pronounced the following
words, as they had been taught me the night before, Ickpling
gloffthrobb squutserumm blhiop mlashnalt zwin tnodbalkguffh slhiophad
gurdlubh asht. This is the compliment, established by the laws of the
land, for all persons admitted to the king’s presence. It may be
rendered into English thus: “May your celestial majesty outlive the
sun, eleven moons and a half!” To this the king returned some answer,
which, although I could not understand, yet I replied as I had been
directed: Fluft drin yalerick dwuldom prastrad mirpush, which
properly signifies, “My tongue is in the mouth of my friend;” and by
this expression was meant, that I desired leave to bring my
interpreter; whereupon the young man already mentioned was accordingly
introduced, by whose intervention I answered as many questions as his
majesty could put in above an hour. I spoke in the Balnibarbian tongue,
and my interpreter delivered my meaning in that of Luggnagg.

The king was much delighted with my company, and ordered his
bliffmarklub, or high-chamberlain, to appoint a lodging in the court
for me and my interpreter; with a daily allowance for my table, and a
large purse of gold for my common expenses.

I staid three months in this country, out of perfect obedience to his
majesty; who was pleased highly to favour me, and made me very
honourable offers. But I thought it more consistent with prudence and
justice to pass the remainder of my days with my wife and family.


CHAPTER X.

The Luggnaggians commended. A particular description of the
Struldbrugs, with many conversations between the author and some
eminent persons upon that subject.


The Luggnaggians are a polite and generous people; and although they
are not without some share of that pride which is peculiar to all
Eastern countries, yet they show themselves courteous to strangers,
especially such who are countenanced by the court. I had many
acquaintance, and among persons of the best fashion; and being always
attended by my interpreter, the conversation we had was not
disagreeable.

One day, in much good company, I was asked by a person of quality,
“whether I had seen any of their struldbrugs, or immortals?” I said,
“I had not;” and desired he would explain to me “what he meant by such
an appellation, applied to a mortal creature.” He told me “that
sometimes, though very rarely, a child happened to be born in a family,
with a red circular spot in the forehead, directly over the left
eyebrow, which was an infallible mark that it should never die.” The
spot, as he described it, “was about the compass of a silver
threepence, but in the course of time grew larger, and changed its
colour; for at twelve years old it became green, so continued till five
and twenty, then turned to a deep blue: at five and forty it grew coal
black, and as large as an English shilling; but never admitted any
further alteration.” He said, “these births were so rare, that he did
not believe there could be above eleven hundred struldbrugs, of both
sexes, in the whole kingdom; of which he computed about fifty in the
metropolis, and, among the rest, a young girl born; about three years
ago: that these productions were not peculiar to any family, but a mere
effect of chance; and the children of the struldbrugs themselves were
equally mortal with the rest of the people.”

I freely own myself to have been struck with inexpressible delight,
upon hearing this account: and the person who gave it me happening to
understand the Balnibarbian language, which I spoke very well, I could
not forbear breaking out into expressions, perhaps a little too
extravagant. I cried out, as in a rapture, “Happy nation, where every
child hath at least a chance for being immortal! Happy people, who
enjoy so many living examples of ancient virtue, and have masters ready
to instruct them in the wisdom of all former ages! but happiest, beyond
all comparison, are those excellent struldbrugs, who, being born
exempt from that universal calamity of human nature, have their minds
free and disengaged, without the weight and depression of spirits
caused by the continual apprehensions of death!” I discovered my
admiration, “that I had not observed any of these illustrious persons
at court; the black spot on the forehead being so remarkable a
distinction, that I could not have easily overlooked it: and it was
impossible that his majesty, a most judicious prince, should not
provide himself with a good number of such wise and able counsellors.
Yet perhaps the virtue of those reverend sages was too strict for the
corrupt and libertine manners of a court: and we often find by
experience, that young men are too opinionated and volatile to be
guided by the sober dictates of their seniors. However, since the king
was pleased to allow me access to his royal person, I was resolved,
upon the very first occasion, to deliver my opinion to him on this
matter freely and at large, by the help of my interpreter; and whether
he would please to take my advice or not, yet in one thing I was
determined, that his majesty having frequently offered me an
establishment in this country, I would, with great thankfulness, accept
the favour, and pass my life here in the conversation of those superior
beings the struldbrugs, if they would please to admit me.”

The gentleman to whom I addressed my discourse, because (as I have
already observed) he spoke the language of Balnibarbi, said to me, with
a sort of a smile which usually arises from pity to the ignorant, “that
he was glad of any occasion to keep me among them, and desired my
permission to explain to the company what I had spoke.” He did so, and
they talked together for some time in their own language, whereof I
understood not a syllable, neither could I observe by their
countenances, what impression my discourse had made on them. After a
short silence, the same person told me, “that his friends and mine (so
he thought fit to express himself) were very much pleased with the
judicious remarks I had made on the great happiness and advantages of
immortal life, and they were desirous to know, in a particular manner,
what scheme of living I should have formed to myself, if it had fallen
to my lot to have been born a struldbrug.”

I answered, “it was easy to be eloquent on so copious and delightful a
subject, especially to me, who had been often apt to amuse myself with
visions of what I should do, if I were a king, a general, or a great
lord: and upon this very case, I had frequently run over the whole
system how I should employ myself, and pass the time, if I were sure to
live for ever.

“That, if it had been my good fortune to come into the world a
struldbrug, as soon as I could discover my own happiness, by
understanding the difference between life and death, I would first
resolve, by all arts and methods, whatsoever, to procure myself riches.
In the pursuit of which, by thrift and management, I might reasonably
expect, in about two hundred years, to be the wealthiest man in the
kingdom. In the second place, I would, from my earliest youth, apply
myself to the study of arts and sciences, by which I should arrive in
time to excel all others in learning. Lastly, I would carefully record
every action and event of consequence, that happened in the public,
impartially draw the characters of the several successions of princes
and great ministers of state, with my own observations on every point.
I would exactly set down the several changes in customs, language,
fashions of dress, diet, and diversions. By all which acquirements, I
should be a living treasure of knowledge and wisdom, and certainly
become the oracle of the nation.

“I would never marry after threescore, but live in a hospitable manner,
yet still on the saving side. I would entertain myself in forming and
directing the minds of hopeful young men, by convincing them, from my
own remembrance, experience, and observation, fortified by numerous
examples, of the usefulness of virtue in public and private life. But
my choice and constant companions should be a set of my own immortal
brotherhood; among whom, I would elect a dozen from the most ancient,
down to my own contemporaries. Where any of these wanted fortunes, I
would provide them with convenient lodges round my own estate, and have
some of them always at my table; only mingling a few of the most
valuable among you mortals, whom length of time would harden me to lose
with little or no reluctance, and treat your posterity after the same
manner; just as a man diverts himself with the annual succession of
pinks and tulips in his garden, without regretting the loss of those
which withered the preceding year.

“These struldbrugs and I would mutually communicate our observations
and memorials, through the course of time; remark the several
gradations by which corruption steals into the world, and oppose it in
every step, by giving perpetual warning and instruction to mankind;
which, added to the strong influence of our own example, would probably
prevent that continual degeneracy of human nature so justly complained
of in all ages.

“Add to this, the pleasure of seeing the various revolutions of states
and empires; the changes in the lower and upper world; ancient cities
in ruins, and obscure villages become the seats of kings; famous rivers
lessening into shallow brooks; the ocean leaving one coast dry, and
overwhelming another; the discovery of many countries yet unknown;
barbarity overrunning the politest nations, and the most barbarous
become civilized. I should then see the discovery of the longitude, the
perpetual motion, the universal medicine, and many other great
inventions, brought to the utmost perfection.

“What wonderful discoveries should we make in astronomy, by outliving
and confirming our own predictions; by observing the progress and
return of comets, with the changes of motion in the sun, moon, and
stars!”

I enlarged upon many other topics, which the natural desire of endless
life, and sublunary happiness, could easily furnish me with. When I had
ended, and the sum of my discourse had been interpreted, as before, to
the rest of the company, there was a good deal of talk among them in
the language of the country, not without some laughter at my expense.
At last, the same gentleman who had been my interpreter, said, “he was
desired by the rest to set me right in a few mistakes, which I had
fallen into through the common imbecility of human nature, and upon
that allowance was less answerable for them. That this breed of
struldbrugs was peculiar to their country, for there were no such
people either in Balnibarbi or Japan, where he had the honour to be
ambassador from his majesty, and found the natives in both those
kingdoms very hard to believe that the fact was possible: and it
appeared from my astonishment when he first mentioned the matter to me,
that I received it as a thing wholly new, and scarcely to be credited.
That in the two kingdoms above mentioned, where, during his residence,
he had conversed very much, he observed long life to be the universal
desire and wish of mankind. That whoever had one foot in the grave was
sure to hold back the other as strongly as he could. That the oldest
had still hopes of living one day longer, and looked on death as the
greatest evil, from which nature always prompted him to retreat. Only
in this island of Luggnagg the appetite for living was not so eager,
from the continual example of the struldbrugs before their eyes.

“That the system of living contrived by me, was unreasonable and
unjust; because it supposed a perpetuity of youth, health, and vigour,
which no man could be so foolish to hope, however extravagant he may be
in his wishes. That the question therefore was not, whether a man would
choose to be always in the prime of youth, attended with prosperity and
health; but how he would pass a perpetual life under all the usual
disadvantages which old age brings along with it. For although few men
will avow their desires of being immortal, upon such hard conditions,
yet in the two kingdoms before mentioned, of Balnibarbi and Japan, he
observed that every man desired to put off death some time longer, let
it approach ever so late: and he rarely heard of any man who died
willingly, except he were incited by the extremity of grief or torture.
And he appealed to me, whether in those countries I had travelled, as
well as my own, I had not observed the same general disposition.”

After this preface, he gave me a particular account of the
struldbrugs among them. He said, “they commonly acted like mortals
till about thirty years old; after which, by degrees, they grew
melancholy and dejected, increasing in both till they came to
fourscore. This he learned from their own confession: for otherwise,
there not being above two or three of that species born in an age, they
were too few to form a general observation by. When they came to
fourscore years, which is reckoned the extremity of living in this
country, they had not only all the follies and infirmities of other old
men, but many more which arose from the dreadful prospect of never
dying. They were not only opinionative, peevish, covetous, morose,
vain, talkative, but incapable of friendship, and dead to all natural
affection, which never descended below their grandchildren. Envy and
impotent desires are their prevailing passions. But those objects
against which their envy seems principally directed, are the vices of
the younger sort and the deaths of the old. By reflecting on the
former, they find themselves cut off from all possibility of pleasure;
and whenever they see a funeral, they lament and repine that others
have gone to a harbour of rest to which they themselves never can hope
to arrive. They have no remembrance of anything but what they learned
and observed in their youth and middle-age, and even that is very
imperfect; and for the truth or particulars of any fact, it is safer to
depend on common tradition, than upon their best recollections. The
least miserable among them appear to be those who turn to dotage, and
entirely lose their memories; these meet with more pity and assistance,
because they want many bad qualities which abound in others.

“If a struldbrug happen to marry one of his own kind, the marriage is
dissolved of course, by the courtesy of the kingdom, as soon as the
younger of the two comes to be fourscore; for the law thinks it a
reasonable indulgence, that those who are condemned, without any fault
of their own, to a perpetual continuance in the world, should not have
their misery doubled by the load of a wife.

“As soon as they have completed the term of eighty years, they are
looked on as dead in law; their heirs immediately succeed to their
estates; only a small pittance is reserved for their support; and the
poor ones are maintained at the public charge. After that period, they
are held incapable of any employment of trust or profit; they cannot
purchase lands, or take leases; neither are they allowed to be
witnesses in any cause, either civil or criminal, not even for the
decision of meers and bounds.

“At ninety, they lose their teeth and hair; they have at that age no
distinction of taste, but eat and drink whatever they can get, without
relish or appetite. The diseases they were subject to still continue,
without increasing or diminishing. In talking, they forget the common
appellation of things, and the names of persons, even of those who are
their nearest friends and relations. For the same reason, they never
can amuse themselves with reading, because their memory will not serve
to carry them from the beginning of a sentence to the end; and by this
defect, they are deprived of the only entertainment whereof they might
otherwise be capable.

“The language of this country being always upon the flux, the
struldbrugs of one age do not understand those of another; neither
are they able, after two hundred years, to hold any conversation
(farther than by a few general words) with their neighbours the
mortals; and thus they lie under the disadvantage of living like
foreigners in their own country.”

This was the account given me of the struldbrugs, as near as I can
remember. I afterwards saw five or six of different ages, the youngest
not above two hundred years old, who were brought to me at several
times by some of my friends; but although they were told, “that I was a
great traveller, and had seen all the world,” they had not the least
curiosity to ask me a question; only desired “I would give them
slumskudask,” or a token of remembrance; which is a modest way of
begging, to avoid the law, that strictly forbids it, because they are
provided for by the public, although indeed with a very scanty
allowance.

They are despised and hated by all sorts of people. When one of them is
born, it is reckoned ominous, and their birth is recorded very
particularly so that you may know their age by consulting the register,
which, however, has not been kept above a thousand years past, or at
least has been destroyed by time or public disturbances. But the usual
way of computing how old they are, is by asking them what kings or
great persons they can remember, and then consulting history; for
infallibly the last prince in their mind did not begin his reign after
they were fourscore years old.

They were the most mortifying sight I ever beheld; and the women more
horrible than the men. Besides the usual deformities in extreme old
age, they acquired an additional ghastliness, in proportion to their
number of years, which is not to be described; and among half a dozen,
I soon distinguished which was the eldest, although there was not above
a century or two between them.

The reader will easily believe, that from what I had heard and seen, my
keen appetite for perpetuity of life was much abated. I grew heartily
ashamed of the pleasing visions I had formed; and thought no tyrant
could invent a death into which I would not run with pleasure, from
such a life. The king heard of all that had passed between me and my
friends upon this occasion, and rallied me very pleasantly; wishing I
could send a couple of struldbrugs to my own country, to arm our
people against the fear of death; but this, it seems, is forbidden by
the fundamental laws of the kingdom, or else I should have been well
content with the trouble and expense of transporting them.

I could not but agree, that the laws of this kingdom relative to the
struldbrugs were founded upon the strongest reasons, and such as any
other country would be under the necessity of enacting, in the like
circumstances. Otherwise, as avarice is the necessary consequence of
old age, those immortals would in time become proprietors of the whole
nation, and engross the civil power, which, for want of abilities to
manage, must end in the ruin of the public.


CHAPTER XI.

The author leaves Luggnagg, and sails to Japan. From thence he returns
in a Dutch ship to Amsterdam, and from Amsterdam to England.


I thought this account of the struldbrugs might be some entertainment
to the reader, because it seems to be a little out of the common way;
at least I do not remember to have met the like in any book of travels
that has come to my hands; and if I am deceived, my excuse must be,
that it is necessary for travellers who describe the same country, very
often to agree in dwelling on the same particulars, without deserving
the censure of having borrowed or transcribed from those who wrote
before them.

There is indeed a perpetual commerce between this kingdom and the great
empire of Japan; and it is very probable, that the Japanese authors may
have given some account of the struldbrugs; but my stay in Japan was
so short, and I was so entirely a stranger to the language, that I was
not qualified to make any inquiries. But I hope the Dutch, upon this
notice, will be curious and able enough to supply my defects.

His majesty having often pressed me to accept some employment in his
court, and finding me absolutely determined to return to my native
country, was pleased to give me his license to depart; and honoured me
with a letter of recommendation, under his own hand, to the Emperor of
Japan. He likewise presented me with four hundred and forty-four large
pieces of gold (this nation delighting in even numbers), and a red
diamond, which I sold in England for eleven hundred pounds.

On the 6th day of May, 1709, I took a solemn leave of his majesty, and
all my friends. This prince was so gracious as to order a guard to
conduct me to Glanguenstald, which is a royal port to the south-west
part of the island. In six days I found a vessel ready to carry me to
Japan, and spent fifteen days in the voyage. We landed at a small
port-town called Xamoschi, situated on the south-east part of Japan;
the town lies on the western point, where there is a narrow strait
leading northward into a long arm of the sea, upon the north-west part
of which, Yedo, the metropolis, stands. At landing, I showed the
custom-house officers my letter from the king of Luggnagg to his
imperial majesty. They knew the seal perfectly well; it was as broad as
the palm of my hand. The impression was, A king lifting up a lame
beggar from the earth. The magistrates of the town, hearing of my
letter, received me as a public minister. They provided me with
carriages and servants, and bore my charges to Yedo; where I was
admitted to an audience, and delivered my letter, which was opened with
great ceremony, and explained to the Emperor by an interpreter, who
then gave me notice, by his majesty’s order, “that I should signify my
request, and, whatever it were, it should be granted, for the sake of
his royal brother of Luggnagg.” This interpreter was a person employed
to transact affairs with the Hollanders. He soon conjectured, by my
countenance, that I was a European, and therefore repeated his
majesty’s commands in Low Dutch, which he spoke perfectly well. I
answered, as I had before determined, “that I was a Dutch merchant,
shipwrecked in a very remote country, whence I had travelled by sea and
land to Luggnagg, and then took shipping for Japan; where I knew my
countrymen often traded, and with some of these I hoped to get an
opportunity of returning into Europe: I therefore most humbly entreated
his royal favour, to give order that I should be conducted in safety to
Nangasac.” To this I added another petition, “that for the sake of my
patron the king of Luggnagg, his majesty would condescend to excuse my
performing the ceremony imposed on my countrymen, of trampling upon the
crucifix, because I had been thrown into his kingdom by my misfortunes,
without any intention of trading.” When this latter petition was
interpreted to the Emperor, he seemed a little surprised; and said, “he
believed I was the first of my countrymen who ever made any scruple in
this point; and that he began to doubt, whether I was a real Hollander,
or not; but rather suspected I must be a Christian. However, for the
reasons I had offered, but chiefly to gratify the king of Luggnagg by
an uncommon mark of his favour, he would comply with the singularity of
my humour; but the affair must be managed with dexterity, and his
officers should be commanded to let me pass, as it were by
forgetfulness. For he assured me, that if the secret should be
discovered by my countrymen the Dutch, they would cut my throat in the
voyage.” I returned my thanks, by the interpreter, for so unusual a
favour; and some troops being at that time on their march to Nangasac,
the commanding officer had orders to convey me safe thither, with
particular instructions about the business of the crucifix.

On the 9th day of June, 1709, I arrived at Nangasac, after a very long
and troublesome journey. I soon fell into the company of some Dutch
sailors belonging to the Amboyna, of Amsterdam, a stout ship of 450
tons. I had lived long in Holland, pursuing my studies at Leyden, and I
spoke Dutch well. The seamen soon knew from whence I came last: they
were curious to inquire into my voyages and course of life. I made up a
story as short and probable as I could, but concealed the greatest
part. I knew many persons in Holland. I was able to invent names for my
parents, whom I pretended to be obscure people in the province of
Gelderland. I would have given the captain (one Theodorus Vangrult)
what he pleased to ask for my voyage to Holland; but understanding I
was a surgeon, he was contented to take half the usual rate, on
condition that I would serve him in the way of my calling. Before we
took shipping, I was often asked by some of the crew, whether I had
performed the ceremony above mentioned. I evaded the question by
general answers; “that I had satisfied the Emperor and court in all
particulars.” However, a malicious rogue of a skipper went to an
officer, and pointing to me, told him, “I had not yet trampled on the
crucifix;” but the other, who had received instructions to let me pass,
gave the rascal twenty strokes on the shoulders with a bamboo; after
which I was no more troubled with such questions.

Nothing happened worth mentioning in this voyage. We sailed with a fair
wind to the Cape of Good Hope, where we staid only to take in fresh
water. On the 10th of April, 1710, we arrived safe at Amsterdam, having
lost only three men by sickness in the voyage, and a fourth, who fell
from the foremast into the sea, not far from the coast of Guinea. From
Amsterdam I soon after set sail for England, in a small vessel
belonging to that city.

On the 16th of April, 1710, we put in at the Downs. I landed next
morning, and saw once more my native country, after an absence of five
years and six months complete. I went straight to Redriff, where I
arrived the same day at two in the afternoon, and found my wife and
family in good health.


PART IV. A VOYAGE TO THE COUNTRY OF THE HOUYHNHNMS.


CHAPTER I.

The author sets out as captain of a ship. His men conspire against him,
confine him a long time to his cabin, and set him on shore in an
unknown land. He travels up into the country. The Yahoos, a strange
sort of animal, described. The author meets two Houyhnhnms.


I continued at home with my wife and children about five months in a
very happy condition, if I could have learned the lesson of knowing
when I was well. I left my poor wife big with child, and accepted an
advantageous offer made me to be captain of the Adventurer, a stout
merchantman of 350 tons: for I understood navigation well, and being
grown weary of a surgeon’s employment at sea, which, however, I could
exercise upon occasion, I took a skilful young man of that calling, one
Robert Purefoy, into my ship. We set sail from Portsmouth upon the 7th
day of August, 1710; on the 14th we met with Captain Pocock, of
Bristol, at Teneriffe, who was going to the bay of Campechy to cut
logwood. On the 16th, he was parted from us by a storm; I heard since
my return, that his ship foundered, and none escaped but one cabin boy.
He was an honest man, and a good sailor, but a little too positive in
his own opinions, which was the cause of his destruction, as it has
been with several others; for if he had followed my advice, he might
have been safe at home with his family at this time, as well as myself.

I had several men who died in my ship of calentures, so that I was
forced to get recruits out of Barbadoes and the Leeward Islands, where
I touched, by the direction of the merchants who employed me; which I
had soon too much cause to repent: for I found afterwards, that most of
them had been buccaneers. I had fifty hands on board; and my orders
were, that I should trade with the Indians in the South-Sea, and make
what discoveries I could. These rogues, whom I had picked up, debauched
my other men, and they all formed a conspiracy to seize the ship, and
secure me; which they did one morning, rushing into my cabin, and
binding me hand and foot, threatening to throw me overboard, if I
offered to stir. I told them, “I was their prisoner, and would submit.”
This they made me swear to do, and then they unbound me, only fastening
one of my legs with a chain, near my bed, and placed a sentry at my
door with his piece charged, who was commanded to shoot me dead if I
attempted my liberty. They sent me down victuals and drink, and took
the government of the ship to themselves. Their design was to turn
pirates, and plunder the Spaniards, which they could not do till they
got more men. But first they resolved to sell the goods in the ship,
and then go to Madagascar for recruits, several among them having died
since my confinement. They sailed many weeks, and traded with the
Indians; but I knew not what course they took, being kept a close
prisoner in my cabin, and expecting nothing less than to be murdered,
as they often threatened me.

Upon the 9th day of May, 1711, one James Welch came down to my cabin,
and said, “he had orders from the captain to set me ashore.” I
expostulated with him, but in vain; neither would he so much as tell me
who their new captain was. They forced me into the long-boat, letting
me put on my best suit of clothes, which were as good as new, and take
a small bundle of linen, but no arms, except my hanger; and they were
so civil as not to search my pockets, into which I conveyed what money
I had, with some other little necessaries. They rowed about a league,
and then set me down on a strand. I desired them to tell me what
country it was. They all swore, “they knew no more than myself;” but
said, “that the captain” (as they called him) “was resolved, after they
had sold the lading, to get rid of me in the first place where they
could discover land.” They pushed off immediately, advising me to make
haste for fear of being overtaken by the tide, and so bade me farewell.

In this desolate condition I advanced forward, and soon got upon firm
ground, where I sat down on a bank to rest myself, and consider what I
had best do. When I was a little refreshed, I went up into the country,
resolving to deliver myself to the first savages I should meet, and
purchase my life from them by some bracelets, glass rings, and other
toys, which sailors usually provide themselves with in those voyages,
and whereof I had some about me. The land was divided by long rows of
trees, not regularly planted, but naturally growing; there was great
plenty of grass, and several fields of oats. I walked very
circumspectly, for fear of being surprised, or suddenly shot with an
arrow from behind, or on either side. I fell into a beaten road, where
I saw many tracts of human feet, and some of cows, but most of horses.
At last I beheld several animals in a field, and one or two of the same
kind sitting in trees. Their shape was very singular and deformed,
which a little discomposed me, so that I lay down behind a thicket to
observe them better. Some of them coming forward near the place where I
lay, gave me an opportunity of distinctly marking their form. Their
heads and breasts were covered with a thick hair, some frizzled, and
others lank; they had beards like goats, and a long ridge of hair down
their backs, and the fore parts of their legs and feet; but the rest of
their bodies was bare, so that I might see their skins, which were of a
brown buff colour. They had no tails, nor any hair at all on their
buttocks, except about the anus, which, I presume, nature had placed
there to defend them as they sat on the ground, for this posture they
used, as well as lying down, and often stood on their hind feet. They
climbed high trees as nimbly as a squirrel, for they had strong
extended claws before and behind, terminating in sharp points, and
hooked. They would often spring, and bound, and leap, with prodigious
agility. The females were not so large as the males; they had long lank
hair on their heads, but none on their faces, nor any thing more than a
sort of down on the rest of their bodies, except about the anus and
pudenda. The dugs hung between their forefeet, and often reached almost
to the ground as they walked. The hair of both sexes was of several
colours, brown, red, black, and yellow. Upon the whole, I never beheld,
in all my travels, so disagreeable an animal, or one against which I
naturally conceived so strong an antipathy. So that, thinking I had
seen enough, full of contempt and aversion, I got up, and pursued the
beaten road, hoping it might direct me to the cabin of some Indian. I
had not got far, when I met one of these creatures full in my way, and
coming up directly to me. The ugly monster, when he saw me, distorted
several ways, every feature of his visage, and stared, as at an object
he had never seen before; then approaching nearer, lifted up his
fore-paw, whether out of curiosity or mischief I could not tell; but I
drew my hanger, and gave him a good blow with the flat side of it, for
I durst not strike with the edge, fearing the inhabitants might be
provoked against me, if they should come to know that I had killed or
maimed any of their cattle. When the beast felt the smart, he drew
back, and roared so loud, that a herd of at least forty came flocking
about me from the next field, howling and making odious faces; but I
ran to the body of a tree, and leaning my back against it, kept them
off by waving my hanger. Several of this cursed brood, getting hold of
the branches behind, leaped up into the tree, whence they began to
discharge their excrements on my head; however, I escaped pretty well
by sticking close to the stem of the tree, but was almost stifled with
the filth, which fell about me on every side.

In the midst of this distress, I observed them all to run away on a
sudden as fast as they could; at which I ventured to leave the tree and
pursue the road, wondering what it was that could put them into this
fright. But looking on my left hand, I saw a horse walking softly in
the field; which my persecutors having sooner discovered, was the cause
of their flight. The horse started a little, when he came near me, but
soon recovering himself, looked full in my face with manifest tokens of
wonder; he viewed my hands and feet, walking round me several times. I
would have pursued my journey, but he placed himself directly in the
way, yet looking with a very mild aspect, never offering the least
violence. We stood gazing at each other for some time; at last I took
the boldness to reach my hand towards his neck with a design to stroke
it, using the common style and whistle of jockeys, when they are going
to handle a strange horse. But this animal seemed to receive my
civilities with disdain, shook his head, and bent his brows, softly
raising up his right fore-foot to remove my hand. Then he neighed three
or four times, but in so different a cadence, that I almost began to
think he was speaking to himself, in some language of his own.

While he and I were thus employed, another horse came up; who applying
himself to the first in a very formal manner, they gently struck each
other’s right hoof before, neighing several times by turns, and varying
the sound, which seemed to be almost articulate. They went some paces
off, as if it were to confer together, walking side by side, backward
and forward, like persons deliberating upon some affair of weight, but
often turning their eyes towards me, as it were to watch that I might
not escape. I was amazed to see such actions and behaviour in brute
beasts; and concluded with myself, that if the inhabitants of this
country were endued with a proportionable degree of reason, they must
needs be the wisest people upon earth. This thought gave me so much
comfort, that I resolved to go forward, until I could discover some
house or village, or meet with any of the natives, leaving the two
horses to discourse together as they pleased. But the first, who was a
dapple gray, observing me to steal off, neighed after me in so
expressive a tone, that I fancied myself to understand what he meant;
whereupon I turned back, and came near to him to expect his farther
commands: but concealing my fear as much as I could, for I began to be
in some pain how this adventure might terminate; and the reader will
easily believe I did not much like my present situation.

The two horses came up close to me, looking with great earnestness upon
my face and hands. The gray steed rubbed my hat all round with his
right fore-hoof, and discomposed it so much that I was forced to adjust
it better by taking it off and settling it again; whereat, both he and
his companion (who was a brown bay) appeared to be much surprised: the
latter felt the lappet of my coat, and finding it to hang loose about
me, they both looked with new signs of wonder. He stroked my right
hand, seeming to admire the softness and colour; but he squeezed it so
hard between his hoof and his pastern, that I was forced to roar; after
which they both touched me with all possible tenderness. They were
under great perplexity about my shoes and stockings, which they felt
very often, neighing to each other, and using various gestures, not
unlike those of a philosopher, when he would attempt to solve some new
and difficult phenomenon.

Upon the whole, the behaviour of these animals was so orderly and
rational, so acute and judicious, that I at last concluded they must
needs be magicians, who had thus metamorphosed themselves upon some
design, and seeing a stranger in the way, resolved to divert themselves
with him; or, perhaps, were really amazed at the sight of a man so very
different in habit, feature, and complexion, from those who might
probably live in so remote a climate. Upon the strength of this
reasoning, I ventured to address them in the following manner:
“Gentlemen, if you be conjurers, as I have good cause to believe, you
can understand my language; therefore I make bold to let your worships
know that I am a poor distressed Englishman, driven by his misfortunes
upon your coast; and I entreat one of you to let me ride upon his back,
as if he were a real horse, to some house or village where I can be
relieved. In return of which favour, I will make you a present of this
knife and bracelet,” taking them out of my pocket. The two creatures
stood silent while I spoke, seeming to listen with great attention, and
when I had ended, they neighed frequently towards each other, as if
they were engaged in serious conversation. I plainly observed that
their language expressed the passions very well, and the words might,
with little pains, be resolved into an alphabet more easily than the
Chinese.

I could frequently distinguish the word Yahoo, which was repeated by
each of them several times: and although it was impossible for me to
conjecture what it meant, yet while the two horses were busy in
conversation, I endeavoured to practise this word upon my tongue; and
as soon as they were silent, I boldly pronounced Yahoo in a loud
voice, imitating at the same time, as near as I could, the neighing of
a horse; at which they were both visibly surprised; and the gray
repeated the same word twice, as if he meant to teach me the right
accent; wherein I spoke after him as well as I could, and found myself
perceivably to improve every time, though very far from any degree of
perfection. Then the bay tried me with a second word, much harder to be
pronounced; but reducing it to the English orthography, may be spelt
thus, Houyhnhnm. I did not succeed in this so well as in the former;
but after two or three farther trials, I had better fortune; and they
both appeared amazed at my capacity.

After some further discourse, which I then conjectured might relate to
me, the two friends took their leaves, with the same compliment of
striking each other’s hoof; and the gray made me signs that I should
walk before him; wherein I thought it prudent to comply, till I could
find a better director. When I offered to slacken my pace, he would cry
hhuun hhuun: I guessed his meaning, and gave him to understand, as
well as I could, “that I was weary, and not able to walk faster;” upon
which he would stand a while to let me rest.


CHAPTER II.

The author conducted by a Houyhnhnm to his house. The house described.
The author’s reception. The food of the Houyhnhnms. The author in
distress for want of meat, is at last relieved. His manner of feeding
in this country.


Having travelled about three miles, we came to a long kind of building,
made of timber stuck in the ground, and wattled across; the roof was
low and covered with straw. I now began to be a little comforted; and
took out some toys, which travellers usually carry for presents to the
savage Indians of America, and other parts, in hopes the people of the
house would be thereby encouraged to receive me kindly. The horse made
me a sign to go in first; it was a large room with a smooth clay floor,
and a rack and manger, extending the whole length on one side. There
were three nags and two mares, not eating, but some of them sitting
down upon their hams, which I very much wondered at; but wondered more
to see the rest employed in domestic business; these seemed but
ordinary cattle. However, this confirmed my first opinion, that a
people who could so far civilize brute animals, must needs excel in
wisdom all the nations of the world. The gray came in just after, and
thereby prevented any ill treatment which the others might have given
me. He neighed to them several times in a style of authority, and
received answers.

Beyond this room there were three others, reaching the length of the
house, to which you passed through three doors, opposite to each other,
in the manner of a vista. We went through the second room towards the
third. Here the gray walked in first, beckoning me to attend: I waited
in the second room, and got ready my presents for the master and
mistress of the house; they were two knives, three bracelets of false
pearls, a small looking-glass, and a bead necklace. The horse neighed
three or four times, and I waited to hear some answers in a human
voice, but I heard no other returns than in the same dialect, only one
or two a little shriller than his. I began to think that this house
must belong to some person of great note among them, because there
appeared so much ceremony before I could gain admittance. But, that a
man of quality should be served all by horses, was beyond my
comprehension. I feared my brain was disturbed by my sufferings and
misfortunes. I roused myself, and looked about me in the room where I
was left alone: this was furnished like the first, only after a more
elegant manner. I rubbed my eyes often, but the same objects still
occurred. I pinched my arms and sides to awake myself, hoping I might
be in a dream. I then absolutely concluded, that all these appearances
could be nothing else but necromancy and magic. But I had no time to
pursue these reflections; for the gray horse came to the door, and made
me a sign to follow him into the third room where I saw a very comely
mare, together with a colt and foal, sitting on their haunches upon
mats of straw, not unartfully made, and perfectly neat and clean.

The mare soon after my entrance rose from her mat, and coming up close,
after having nicely observed my hands and face, gave me a most
contemptuous look; and turning to the horse, I heard the word Yahoo
often repeated betwixt them; the meaning of which word I could not then
comprehend, although it was the first I had learned to pronounce. But I
was soon better informed, to my everlasting mortification; for the
horse, beckoning to me with his head, and repeating the hhuun,
hhuun, as he did upon the road, which I understood was to attend him,
led me out into a kind of court, where was another building, at some
distance from the house. Here we entered, and I saw three of those
detestable creatures, which I first met after my landing, feeding upon
roots, and the flesh of some animals, which I afterwards found to be
that of asses and dogs, and now and then a cow, dead by accident or
disease. They were all tied by the neck with strong withes, fastened to
a beam; they held their food between the claws of their forefeet, and
tore it with their teeth.

The master horse ordered a sorrel nag, one of his servants, to untie
the largest of these animals, and take him into the yard. The beast and
I were brought close together, and by our countenances diligently
compared both by master and servant, who thereupon repeated several
times the word Yahoo. My horror and astonishment are not to be
described, when I observed in this abominable animal, a perfect human
figure: the face of it indeed was flat and broad, the nose depressed,
the lips large, and the mouth wide; but these differences are common to
all savage nations, where the lineaments of the countenance are
distorted, by the natives suffering their infants to lie grovelling on
the earth, or by carrying them on their backs, nuzzling with their face
against the mothers’ shoulders. The forefeet of the Yahoo differed
from my hands in nothing else but the length of the nails, the
coarseness and brownness of the palms, and the hairiness on the backs.
There was the same resemblance between our feet, with the same
differences; which I knew very well, though the horses did not, because
of my shoes and stockings; the same in every part of our bodies except
as to hairiness and colour, which I have already described.

The great difficulty that seemed to stick with the two horses, was to
see the rest of my body so very different from that of a Yahoo, for
which I was obliged to my clothes, whereof they had no conception. The
sorrel nag offered me a root, which he held (after their manner, as we
shall describe in its proper place) between his hoof and pastern; I
took it in my hand, and, having smelt it, returned it to him again as
civilly as I could. He brought out of the Yahoos’ kennel a piece of
ass’s flesh; but it smelt so offensively that I turned from it with
loathing: he then threw it to the Yahoo, by whom it was greedily
devoured. He afterwards showed me a wisp of hay, and a fetlock full of
oats; but I shook my head, to signify that neither of these were food
for me. And indeed I now apprehended that I must absolutely starve, if
I did not get to some of my own species; for as to those filthy
Yahoos, although there were few greater lovers of mankind at that
time than myself, yet I confess I never saw any sensitive being so
detestable on all accounts; and the more I came near them the more
hateful they grew, while I stayed in that country. This the master
horse observed by my behaviour, and therefore sent the Yahoo back to
his kennel. He then put his fore-hoof to his mouth, at which I was much
surprised, although he did it with ease, and with a motion that
appeared perfectly natural, and made other signs, to know what I would
eat; but I could not return him such an answer as he was able to
apprehend; and if he had understood me, I did not see how it was
possible to contrive any way for finding myself nourishment. While we
were thus engaged, I observed a cow passing by, whereupon I pointed to
her, and expressed a desire to go and milk her. This had its effect;
for he led me back into the house, and ordered a mare-servant to open a
room, where a good store of milk lay in earthen and wooden vessels,
after a very orderly and cleanly manner. She gave me a large bowlful,
of which I drank very heartily, and found myself well refreshed.

About noon, I saw coming towards the house a kind of vehicle drawn like
a sledge by four Yahoos. There was in it an old steed, who seemed to
be of quality; he alighted with his hind-feet forward, having by
accident got a hurt in his left fore-foot. He came to dine with our
horse, who received him with great civility. They dined in the best
room, and had oats boiled in milk for the second course, which the old
horse ate warm, but the rest cold. Their mangers were placed circular
in the middle of the room, and divided into several partitions, round
which they sat on their haunches, upon bosses of straw. In the middle
was a large rack, with angles answering to every partition of the
manger; so that each horse and mare ate their own hay, and their own
mash of oats and milk, with much decency and regularity. The behaviour
of the young colt and foal appeared very modest, and that of the master
and mistress extremely cheerful and complaisant to their guest. The
gray ordered me to stand by him; and much discourse passed between him
and his friend concerning me, as I found by the stranger’s often
looking on me, and the frequent repetition of the word Yahoo.

I happened to wear my gloves, which the master gray observing, seemed
perplexed, discovering signs of wonder what I had done to my forefeet.
He put his hoof three or four times to them, as if he would signify,
that I should reduce them to their former shape, which I presently did,
pulling off both my gloves, and putting them into my pocket. This
occasioned farther talk; and I saw the company was pleased with my
behaviour, whereof I soon found the good effects. I was ordered to
speak the few words I understood; and while they were at dinner, the
master taught me the names for oats, milk, fire, water, and some
others, which I could readily pronounce after him, having from my youth
a great facility in learning languages.

When dinner was done, the master horse took me aside, and by signs and
words made me understand the concern he was in that I had nothing to
eat. Oats in their tongue are called hlunnh. This word I pronounced
two or three times; for although I had refused them at first, yet, upon
second thoughts, I considered that I could contrive to make of them a
kind of bread, which might be sufficient, with milk, to keep me alive,
till I could make my escape to some other country, and to creatures of
my own species. The horse immediately ordered a white mare servant of
his family to bring me a good quantity of oats in a sort of wooden
tray. These I heated before the fire, as well as I could, and rubbed
them till the husks came off, which I made a shift to winnow from the
grain. I ground and beat them between two stones; then took water, and
made them into a paste or cake, which I toasted at the fire and eat
warm with milk. It was at first a very insipid diet, though common
enough in many parts of Europe, but grew tolerable by time; and having
been often reduced to hard fare in my life, this was not the first
experiment I had made how easily nature is satisfied. And I cannot but
observe, that I never had one hour’s sickness while I stayed in this
island. It is true, I sometimes made a shift to catch a rabbit, or
bird, by springs made of Yahoo’s hairs; and I often gathered
wholesome herbs, which I boiled, and ate as salads with my bread; and
now and then, for a rarity, I made a little butter, and drank the whey.
I was at first at a great loss for salt, but custom soon reconciled me
to the want of it; and I am confident that the frequent use of salt
among us is an effect of luxury, and was first introduced only as a
provocative to drink, except where it is necessary for preserving flesh
in long voyages, or in places remote from great markets; for we observe
no animal to be fond of it but man, and as to myself, when I left this
country, it was a great while before I could endure the taste of it in
anything that I ate.

This is enough to say upon the subject of my diet, wherewith other
travellers fill their books, as if the readers were personally
concerned whether we fare well or ill. However, it was necessary to
mention this matter, lest the world should think it impossible that I
could find sustenance for three years in such a country, and among such
inhabitants.

When it grew towards evening, the master horse ordered a place for me
to lodge in; it was but six yards from the house and separated from the
stable of the Yahoos. Here I got some straw, and covering myself with
my own clothes, slept very sound. But I was in a short time better
accommodated, as the reader shall know hereafter, when I come to treat
more particularly about my way of living.


CHAPTER III.

The author studies to learn the language. The Houyhnhnm, his master,
assists in teaching him. The language described. Several Houyhnhnms of
quality come out of curiosity to see the author. He gives his master a
short account of his voyage.


My principal endeavour was to learn the language, which my master (for
so I shall henceforth call him), and his children, and every servant of
his house, were desirous to teach me; for they looked upon it as a
prodigy, that a brute animal should discover such marks of a rational
creature. I pointed to every thing, and inquired the name of it, which
I wrote down in my journal-book when I was alone, and corrected my bad
accent by desiring those of the family to pronounce it often. In this
employment, a sorrel nag, one of the under-servants, was very ready to
assist me.

In speaking, they pronounced through the nose and throat, and their
language approaches nearest to the High-Dutch, or German, of any I know
in Europe; but is much more graceful and significant. The emperor
Charles V. made almost the same observation, when he said “that if he
were to speak to his horse, it should be in High-Dutch.”

The curiosity and impatience of my master were so great, that he spent
many hours of his leisure to instruct me. He was convinced (as he
afterwards told me) that I must be a Yahoo; but my teachableness,
civility, and cleanliness, astonished him; which were qualities
altogether opposite to those animals. He was most perplexed about my
clothes, reasoning sometimes with himself, whether they were a part of
my body: for I never pulled them off till the family were asleep, and
got them on before they waked in the morning. My master was eager to
learn “whence I came; how I acquired those appearances of reason, which
I discovered in all my actions; and to know my story from my own mouth,
which he hoped he should soon do by the great proficiency I made in
learning and pronouncing their words and sentences.” To help my memory,
I formed all I learned into the English alphabet, and writ the words
down, with the translations. This last, after some time, I ventured to
do in my master’s presence. It cost me much trouble to explain to him
what I was doing; for the inhabitants have not the least idea of books
or literature.

In about ten weeks time, I was able to understand most of his
questions; and in three months, could give him some tolerable answers.
He was extremely curious to know “from what part of the country I came,
and how I was taught to imitate a rational creature; because the
Yahoos (whom he saw I exactly resembled in my head, hands, and face,
that were only visible), with some appearance of cunning, and the
strongest disposition to mischief, were observed to be the most
unteachable of all brutes.” I answered, “that I came over the sea, from
a far place, with many others of my own kind, in a great hollow vessel
made of the bodies of trees: that my companions forced me to land on
this coast, and then left me to shift for myself.” It was with some
difficulty, and by the help of many signs, that I brought him to
understand me. He replied, “that I must needs be mistaken, or that I
said the thing which was not;” for they have no word in their language
to express lying or falsehood. “He knew it was impossible that there
could be a country beyond the sea, or that a parcel of brutes could
move a wooden vessel whither they pleased upon water. He was sure no
Houyhnhnm alive could make such a vessel, nor would trust Yahoos to
manage it.”

The word Houyhnhnm, in their tongue, signifies a horse, and, in its
etymology, the perfection of nature. I told my master, “that I was at
a loss for expression, but would improve as fast as I could; and hoped,
in a short time, I should be able to tell him wonders.” He was pleased
to direct his own mare, his colt, and foal, and the servants of the
family, to take all opportunities of instructing me; and every day, for
two or three hours, he was at the same pains himself. Several horses
and mares of quality in the neighbourhood came often to our house, upon
the report spread of “a wonderful Yahoo, that could speak like a
Houyhnhnm, and seemed, in his words and actions, to discover some
glimmerings of reason.” These delighted to converse with me: they put
many questions, and received such answers as I was able to return. By
all these advantages I made so great a progress, that, in five months
from my arrival I understood whatever was spoken, and could express
myself tolerably well.

The Houyhnhnms, who came to visit my master out of a design of seeing
and talking with me, could hardly believe me to be a right Yahoo,
because my body had a different covering from others of my kind. They
were astonished to observe me without the usual hair or skin, except on
my head, face, and hands; but I discovered that secret to my master
upon an accident which happened about a fortnight before.

I have already told the reader, that every night, when the family were
gone to bed, it was my custom to strip, and cover myself with my
clothes. It happened, one morning early, that my master sent for me by
the sorrel nag, who was his valet. When he came I was fast asleep, my
clothes fallen off on one side, and my shirt above my waist. I awaked
at the noise he made, and observed him to deliver his message in some
disorder; after which he went to my master, and in a great fright gave
him a very confused account of what he had seen. This I presently
discovered, for, going as soon as I was dressed to pay my attendance
upon his honour, he asked me “the meaning of what his servant had
reported, that I was not the same thing when I slept, as I appeared to
be at other times; that his valet assured him, some part of me was
white, some yellow, at least not so white, and some brown.”

I had hitherto concealed the secret of my dress, in order to
distinguish myself, as much as possible, from that cursed race of
Yahoos; but now I found it in vain to do so any longer. Besides, I
considered that my clothes and shoes would soon wear out, which already
were in a declining condition, and must be supplied by some contrivance
from the hides of Yahoos, or other brutes; whereby the whole secret
would be known. I therefore told my master, “that in the country whence
I came, those of my kind always covered their bodies with the hairs of
certain animals prepared by art, as well for decency as to avoid the
inclemencies of air, both hot and cold; of which, as to my own person,
I would give him immediate conviction, if he pleased to command me:
only desiring his excuse, if I did not expose those parts that nature
taught us to conceal.” He said, “my discourse was all very strange, but
especially the last part; for he could not understand, why nature
should teach us to conceal what nature had given; that neither himself
nor family were ashamed of any parts of their bodies; but, however, I
might do as I pleased.” Whereupon I first unbuttoned my coat, and
pulled it off. I did the same with my waistcoat. I drew off my shoes,
stockings, and breeches. I let my shirt down to my waist, and drew up
the bottom; fastening it like a girdle about my middle, to hide my
nakedness.

My master observed the whole performance with great signs of curiosity
and admiration. He took up all my clothes in his pastern, one piece
after another, and examined them diligently; he then stroked my body
very gently, and looked round me several times; after which, he said,
it was plain I must be a perfect Yahoo; but that I differed very much
from the rest of my species in the softness, whiteness, and smoothness
of my skin; my want of hair in several parts of my body; the shape and
shortness of my claws behind and before; and my affectation of walking
continually on my two hinder feet. He desired to see no more; and gave
me leave to put on my clothes again, for I was shuddering with cold.

I expressed my uneasiness at his giving me so often the appellation of
Yahoo, an odious animal, for which I had so utter a hatred and
contempt: I begged he would forbear applying that word to me, and make
the same order in his family and among his friends whom he suffered to
see me. I requested likewise, “that the secret of my having a false
covering to my body, might be known to none but himself, at least as
long as my present clothing should last; for as to what the sorrel nag,
his valet, had observed, his honour might command him to conceal it.”

All this my master very graciously consented to; and thus the secret
was kept till my clothes began to wear out, which I was forced to
supply by several contrivances that shall hereafter be mentioned. In
the meantime, he desired “I would go on with my utmost diligence to
learn their language, because he was more astonished at my capacity for
speech and reason, than at the figure of my body, whether it were
covered or not;” adding, “that he waited with some impatience to hear
the wonders which I promised to tell him.”

From thenceforward he doubled the pains he had been at to instruct me:
he brought me into all company, and made them treat me with civility;
“because,” as he told them, privately, “this would put me into good
humour, and make me more diverting.”

Every day, when I waited on him, beside the trouble he was at in
teaching, he would ask me several questions concerning myself, which I
answered as well as I could, and by these means he had already received
some general ideas, though very imperfect. It would be tedious to
relate the several steps by which I advanced to a more regular
conversation; but the first account I gave of myself in any order and
length was to this purpose:

“That I came from a very far country, as I already had attempted to
tell him, with about fifty more of my own species; that we travelled
upon the seas in a great hollow vessel made of wood, and larger than
his honour’s house. I described the ship to him in the best terms I
could, and explained, by the help of my handkerchief displayed, how it
was driven forward by the wind. That upon a quarrel among us, I was set
on shore on this coast, where I walked forward, without knowing
whither, till he delivered me from the persecution of those execrable
Yahoos.” He asked me, “who made the ship, and how it was possible
that the Houyhnhnms of my country would leave it to the management of
brutes?” My answer was, “that I durst proceed no further in my
relation, unless he would give me his word and honour that he would not
be offended, and then I would tell him the wonders I had so often
promised.” He agreed; and I went on by assuring him, that the ship was
made by creatures like myself; who, in all the countries I had
travelled, as well as in my own, were the only governing rational
animals; and that upon my arrival hither, I was as much astonished to
see the Houyhnhnms act like rational beings, as he, or his friends,
could be, in finding some marks of reason in a creature he was pleased
to call a Yahoo; to which I owned my resemblance in every part, but
could not account for their degenerate and brutal nature. I said
farther, “that if good fortune ever restored me to my native country,
to relate my travels hither, as I resolved to do, everybody would
believe, that I said the thing that was not, that I invented the story
out of my own head; and (with all possible respect to himself, his
family, and friends, and under his promise of not being offended) our
countrymen would hardly think it probable that a Houyhnhnm should be
the presiding creature of a nation, and a Yahoo the brute.”


CHAPTER IV.

The Houyhnhnms’ notion of truth and falsehood. The author’s discourse
disapproved by his master. The author gives a more particular account
of himself, and the accidents of his voyage.


My master heard me with great appearances of uneasiness in his
countenance; because doubting, or not believing, are so little known
in this country, that the inhabitants cannot tell how to behave
themselves under such circumstances. And I remember, in frequent
discourses with my master concerning the nature of manhood in other
parts of the world, having occasion to talk of lying and false
representation, it was with much difficulty that he comprehended what
I meant, although he had otherwise a most acute judgment. For he argued
thus: “that the use of speech was to make us understand one another,
and to receive information of facts; now, if any one said the thing
which was not, these ends were defeated, because I cannot properly be
said to understand him; and I am so far from receiving information,
that he leaves me worse than in ignorance; for I am led to believe a
thing black, when it is white, and short, when it is long.” And these
were all the notions he had concerning that faculty of lying, so
perfectly well understood, and so universally practised, among human
creatures.

To return from this digression. When I asserted that the Yahoos were
the only governing animals in my country, which my master said was
altogether past his conception, he desired to know, “whether we had
Houyhnhnms among us, and what was their employment?” I told him, “we
had great numbers; that in summer they grazed in the fields, and in
winter were kept in houses with hay and oats, where Yahoo servants
were employed to rub their skins smooth, comb their manes, pick their
feet, serve them with food, and make their beds.” “I understand you
well,” said my master: “it is now very plain, from all you have spoken,
that whatever share of reason the Yahoos pretend to, the Houyhnhnms
are your masters; I heartily wish our Yahoos would be so tractable.”
I begged “his honour would please to excuse me from proceeding any
further, because I was very certain that the account he expected from
me would be highly displeasing.” But he insisted in commanding me to
let him know the best and the worst. I told him “he should be obeyed.”
I owned “that the Houyhnhnms among us, whom we called horses, were
the most generous and comely animals we had; that they excelled in
strength and swiftness; and when they belonged to persons of quality,
were employed in travelling, racing, or drawing chariots; they were
treated with much kindness and care, till they fell into diseases, or
became foundered in the feet; but then they were sold, and used to all
kind of drudgery till they died; after which their skins were stripped,
and sold for what they were worth, and their bodies left to be devoured
by dogs and birds of prey. But the common race of horses had not so
good fortune, being kept by farmers and carriers, and other mean
people, who put them to greater labour, and fed them worse.” I
described, as well as I could, our way of riding; the shape and use of
a bridle, a saddle, a spur, and a whip; of harness and wheels. I added,
“that we fastened plates of a certain hard substance, called iron, at
the bottom of their feet, to preserve their hoofs from being broken by
the stony ways, on which we often travelled.”

My master, after some expressions of great indignation, wondered “how
we dared to venture upon a Houyhnhnm’s back; for he was sure, that
the weakest servant in his house would be able to shake off the
strongest Yahoo; or by lying down and rolling on his back, squeeze
the brute to death.” I answered “that our horses were trained up, from
three or four years old, to the several uses we intended them for; that
if any of them proved intolerably vicious, they were employed for
carriages; that they were severely beaten, while they were young, for
any mischievous tricks; that the males, designed for the common use of
riding or draught, were generally castrated about two years after their
birth, to take down their spirits, and make them more tame and gentle;
that they were indeed sensible of rewards and punishments; but his
honour would please to consider, that they had not the least tincture
of reason, any more than the Yahoos in this country.”

It put me to the pains of many circumlocutions, to give my master a
right idea of what I spoke; for their language does not abound in
variety of words, because their wants and passions are fewer than among
us. But it is impossible to express his noble resentment at our savage
treatment of the Houyhnhnm race; particularly after I had explained
the manner and use of castrating horses among us, to hinder them from
propagating their kind, and to render them more servile. He said, “if
it were possible there could be any country where Yahoos alone were
endued with reason, they certainly must be the governing animal;
because reason in time will always prevail against brutal strength.
But, considering the frame of our bodies, and especially of mine, he
thought no creature of equal bulk was so ill-contrived for employing
that reason in the common offices of life;” whereupon he desired to
know “whether those among whom I lived resembled me, or the Yahoos of
his country?” I assured him, “that I was as well shaped as most of my
age; but the younger, and the females, were much more soft and tender,
and the skins of the latter generally as white as milk.” He said, “I
differed indeed from other Yahoos, being much more cleanly, and not
altogether so deformed; but, in point of real advantage, he thought I
differed for the worse: that my nails were of no use either to my fore
or hinder feet; as to my forefeet, he could not properly call them by
that name, for he never observed me to walk upon them; that they were
too soft to bear the ground; that I generally went with them uncovered;
neither was the covering I sometimes wore on them of the same shape, or
so strong as that on my feet behind: that I could not walk with any
security, for if either of my hinder feet slipped, I must inevitably
fall.” He then began to find fault with other parts of my body: “the
flatness of my face, the prominence of my nose, my eyes placed directly
in front, so that I could not look on either side without turning my
head: that I was not able to feed myself, without lifting one of my
forefeet to my mouth: and therefore nature had placed those joints to
answer that necessity. He knew not what could be the use of those
several clefts and divisions in my feet behind; that these were too
soft to bear the hardness and sharpness of stones, without a covering
made from the skin of some other brute; that my whole body wanted a
fence against heat and cold, which I was forced to put on and off every
day, with tediousness and trouble: and lastly, that he observed every
animal in this country naturally to abhor the Yahoos, whom the weaker
avoided, and the stronger drove from them. So that, supposing us to
have the gift of reason, he could not see how it were possible to cure
that natural antipathy, which every creature discovered against us; nor
consequently how we could tame and render them serviceable. However, he
would,” as he said, “debate the matter no farther, because he was more
desirous to know my own story, the country where I was born, and the
several actions and events of my life, before I came hither.”

I assured him, “how extremely desirous I was that he should be
satisfied on every point; but I doubted much, whether it would be
possible for me to explain myself on several subjects, whereof his
honour could have no conception; because I saw nothing in his country
to which I could resemble them; that, however, I would do my best, and
strive to express myself by similitudes, humbly desiring his assistance
when I wanted proper words;” which he was pleased to promise me.

I said, “my birth was of honest parents, in an island called England;
which was remote from his country, as many days’ journey as the
strongest of his honour’s servants could travel in the annual course of
the sun; that I was bred a surgeon, whose trade it is to cure wounds
and hurts in the body, gotten by accident or violence; that my country
was governed by a female man, whom we called queen; that I left it to
get riches, whereby I might maintain myself and family, when I should
return; that, in my last voyage, I was commander of the ship, and had
about fifty Yahoos under me, many of which died at sea, and I was
forced to supply them by others picked out from several nations; that
our ship was twice in danger of being sunk, the first time by a great
storm, and the second by striking against a rock.” Here my master
interposed, by asking me, “how I could persuade strangers, out of
different countries, to venture with me, after the losses I had
sustained, and the hazards I had run?” I said, “they were fellows of
desperate fortunes, forced to fly from the places of their birth on
account of their poverty or their crimes. Some were undone by lawsuits;
others spent all they had in drinking, whoring, and gaming; others fled
for treason; many for murder, theft, poisoning, robbery, perjury,
forgery, coining false money, for committing rapes, or sodomy; for
flying from their colours, or deserting to the enemy; and most of them
had broken prison; none of these durst return to their native
countries, for fear of being hanged, or of starving in a jail; and
therefore they were under the necessity of seeking a livelihood in
other places.”

During this discourse, my master was pleased to interrupt me several
times. I had made use of many circumlocutions in describing to him the
nature of the several crimes for which most of our crew had been forced
to fly their country. This labour took up several days’ conversation,
before he was able to comprehend me. He was wholly at a loss to know
what could be the use or necessity of practising those vices. To clear
up which, I endeavoured to give some ideas of the desire of power and
riches; of the terrible effects of lust, intemperance, malice, and
envy. All this I was forced to define and describe by putting cases and
making suppositions. After which, like one whose imagination was struck
with something never seen or heard of before, he would lift up his eyes
with amazement and indignation. Power, government, war, law,
punishment, and a thousand other things, had no terms wherein that
language could express them, which made the difficulty almost
insuperable, to give my master any conception of what I meant. But
being of an excellent understanding, much improved by contemplation and
converse, he at last arrived at a competent knowledge of what human
nature, in our parts of the world, is capable to perform, and desired I
would give him some particular account of that land which we call
Europe, but especially of my own country.


CHAPTER V.

The author at his master’s command, informs him of the state of
England. The causes of war among the princes of Europe. The author
begins to explain the English constitution.


The reader may please to observe, that the following extract of many
conversations I had with my master, contains a summary of the most
material points which were discoursed at several times for above two
years; his honour often desiring fuller satisfaction, as I farther
improved in the Houyhnhnm tongue. I laid before him, as well as I
could, the whole state of Europe; I discoursed of trade and
manufactures, of arts and sciences; and the answers I gave to all the
questions he made, as they arose upon several subjects, were a fund of
conversation not to be exhausted. But I shall here only set down the
substance of what passed between us concerning my own country, reducing
it in order as well as I can, without any regard to time or other
circumstances, while I strictly adhere to truth. My only concern is,
that I shall hardly be able to do justice to my master’s arguments and
expressions, which must needs suffer by my want of capacity, as well as
by a translation into our barbarous English.

In obedience, therefore, to his honour’s commands, I related to him the
Revolution under the Prince of Orange; the long war with France,
entered into by the said prince, and renewed by his successor, the
present queen, wherein the greatest powers of Christendom were engaged,
and which still continued: I computed, at his request, “that about a
million of Yahoos might have been killed in the whole progress of it;
and perhaps a hundred or more cities taken, and five times as many
ships burnt or sunk.”

He asked me, “what were the usual causes or motives that made one
country go to war with another?” I answered “they were innumerable; but
I should only mention a few of the chief. Sometimes the ambition of
princes, who never think they have land or people enough to govern;
sometimes the corruption of ministers, who engage their master in a
war, in order to stifle or divert the clamour of the subjects against
their evil administration. Difference in opinions has cost many
millions of lives: for instance, whether flesh be bread, or bread be
flesh; whether the juice of a certain berry be blood or wine; whether
whistling be a vice or a virtue; whether it be better to kiss a post,
or throw it into the fire; what is the best colour for a coat, whether
black, white, red, or gray; and whether it should be long or short,
narrow or wide, dirty or clean; with many more. Neither are any wars so
furious and bloody, or of so long a continuance, as those occasioned by
difference in opinion, especially if it be in things indifferent.

“Sometimes the quarrel between two princes is to decide which of them
shall dispossess a third of his dominions, where neither of them
pretend to any right. Sometimes one prince quarrels with another for
fear the other should quarrel with him. Sometimes a war is entered
upon, because the enemy is too strong; and sometimes, because he is too
weak. Sometimes our neighbours want the things which we have, or have
the things which we want, and we both fight, till they take ours, or
give us theirs. It is a very justifiable cause of a war, to invade a
country after the people have been wasted by famine, destroyed by
pestilence, or embroiled by factions among themselves. It is
justifiable to enter into war against our nearest ally, when one of his
towns lies convenient for us, or a territory of land, that would render
our dominions round and complete. If a prince sends forces into a
nation, where the people are poor and ignorant, he may lawfully put
half of them to death, and make slaves of the rest, in order to
civilize and reduce them from their barbarous way of living. It is a
very kingly, honourable, and frequent practice, when one prince desires
the assistance of another, to secure him against an invasion, that the
assistant, when he has driven out the invader, should seize on the
dominions himself, and kill, imprison, or banish, the prince he came to
relieve. Alliance by blood, or marriage, is a frequent cause of war
between princes; and the nearer the kindred is, the greater their
disposition to quarrel; poor nations are hungry, and rich nations are
proud; and pride and hunger will ever be at variance. For these
reasons, the trade of a soldier is held the most honourable of all
others; because a soldier is a Yahoo hired to kill, in cold blood, as
many of his own species, who have never offended him, as possibly he
can.

“There is likewise a kind of beggarly princes in Europe, not able to
make war by themselves, who hire out their troops to richer nations,
for so much a day to each man; of which they keep three-fourths to
themselves, and it is the best part of their maintenance: such are
those in many northern parts of Europe.”

“What you have told me,” said my master, “upon the subject of war, does
indeed discover most admirably the effects of that reason you pretend
to: however, it is happy that the shame is greater than the danger; and
that nature has left you utterly incapable of doing much mischief. For,
your mouths lying flat with your faces, you can hardly bite each other
to any purpose, unless by consent. Then as to the claws upon your feet
before and behind, they are so short and tender, that one of our
Yahoos would drive a dozen of yours before him. And therefore, in
recounting the numbers of those who have been killed in battle, I
cannot but think you have said the thing which is not.”

I could not forbear shaking my head, and smiling a little at his
ignorance. And being no stranger to the art of war, I gave him a
description of cannons, culverins, muskets, carabines, pistols,
bullets, powder, swords, bayonets, battles, sieges, retreats, attacks,
undermines, countermines, bombardments, sea fights, ships sunk with a
thousand men, twenty thousand killed on each side, dying groans, limbs
flying in the air, smoke, noise, confusion, trampling to death under
horses’ feet, flight, pursuit, victory; fields strewed with carcases,
left for food to dogs and wolves and birds of prey; plundering,
stripping, ravishing, burning, and destroying. And to set forth the
valour of my own dear countrymen, I assured him, “that I had seen them
blow up a hundred enemies at once in a siege, and as many in a ship,
and beheld the dead bodies drop down in pieces from the clouds, to the
great diversion of the spectators.”

I was going on to more particulars, when my master commanded me
silence. He said, “whoever understood the nature of Yahoos, might
easily believe it possible for so vile an animal to be capable of every
action I had named, if their strength and cunning equalled their
malice. But as my discourse had increased his abhorrence of the whole
species, so he found it gave him a disturbance in his mind to which he
was wholly a stranger before. He thought his ears, being used to such
abominable words, might, by degrees, admit them with less detestation:
that although he hated the Yahoos of this country, yet he no more
blamed them for their odious qualities, than he did a gnnayh (a bird
of prey) for its cruelty, or a sharp stone for cutting his hoof. But
when a creature pretending to reason could be capable of such
enormities, he dreaded lest the corruption of that faculty might be
worse than brutality itself. He seemed therefore confident, that,
instead of reason we were only possessed of some quality fitted to
increase our natural vices; as the reflection from a troubled stream
returns the image of an ill-shapen body, not only larger but more
distorted.”

He added, “that he had heard too much upon the subject of war, both in
this and some former discourses. There was another point, which a
little perplexed him at present. I had informed him, that some of our
crew left their country on account of being ruined by law; that I had
already explained the meaning of the word; but he was at a loss how it
should come to pass, that the law, which was intended for every man’s
preservation, should be any man’s ruin. Therefore he desired to be
further satisfied what I meant by law, and the dispensers thereof,
according to the present practice in my own country; because he thought
nature and reason were sufficient guides for a reasonable animal, as we
pretended to be, in showing us what we ought to do, and what to avoid.”

I assured his honour, “that law was a science in which I had not much
conversed, further than by employing advocates, in vain, upon some
injustices that had been done me: however, I would give him all the
satisfaction I was able.”

I said, “there was a society of men among us, bred up from their youth
in the art of proving, by words multiplied for the purpose, that white
is black, and black is white, according as they are paid. To this
society all the rest of the people are slaves. For example, if my
neighbour has a mind to my cow, he has a lawyer to prove that he ought
to have my cow from me. I must then hire another to defend my right, it
being against all rules of law that any man should be allowed to speak
for himself. Now, in this case, I, who am the right owner, lie under
two great disadvantages: first, my lawyer, being practised almost from
his cradle in defending falsehood, is quite out of his element when he
would be an advocate for justice, which is an unnatural office he
always attempts with great awkwardness, if not with ill-will. The
second disadvantage is, that my lawyer must proceed with great caution,
or else he will be reprimanded by the judges, and abhorred by his
brethren, as one that would lessen the practice of the law. And
therefore I have but two methods to preserve my cow. The first is, to
gain over my adversary’s lawyer with a double fee, who will then betray
his client by insinuating that he hath justice on his side. The second
way is for my lawyer to make my cause appear as unjust as he can, by
allowing the cow to belong to my adversary: and this, if it be
skilfully done, will certainly bespeak the favour of the bench. Now
your honour is to know, that these judges are persons appointed to
decide all controversies of property, as well as for the trial of
criminals, and picked out from the most dexterous lawyers, who are
grown old or lazy; and having been biassed all their lives against
truth and equity, lie under such a fatal necessity of favouring fraud,
perjury, and oppression, that I have known some of them refuse a large
bribe from the side where justice lay, rather than injure the faculty,
by doing any thing unbecoming their nature or their office.

“It is a maxim among these lawyers that whatever has been done before,
may legally be done again: and therefore they take special care to
record all the decisions formerly made against common justice, and the
general reason of mankind. These, under the name of precedents, they
produce as authorities to justify the most iniquitous opinions; and the
judges never fail of directing accordingly.

“In pleading, they studiously avoid entering into the merits of the
cause; but are loud, violent, and tedious, in dwelling upon all
circumstances which are not to the purpose. For instance, in the case
already mentioned; they never desire to know what claim or title my
adversary has to my cow; but whether the said cow were red or black;
her horns long or short; whether the field I graze her in be round or
square; whether she was milked at home or abroad; what diseases she is
subject to, and the like; after which they consult precedents, adjourn
the cause from time to time, and in ten, twenty, or thirty years, come
to an issue.

“It is likewise to be observed, that this society has a peculiar cant
and jargon of their own, that no other mortal can understand, and
wherein all their laws are written, which they take special care to
multiply; whereby they have wholly confounded the very essence of truth
and falsehood, of right and wrong; so that it will take thirty years to
decide, whether the field left me by my ancestors for six generations
belongs to me, or to a stranger three hundred miles off.

“In the trial of persons accused for crimes against the state, the
method is much more short and commendable: the judge first sends to
sound the disposition of those in power, after which he can easily hang
or save a criminal, strictly preserving all due forms of law.”

Here my master interposing, said, “it was a pity, that creatures
endowed with such prodigious abilities of mind, as these lawyers, by
the description I gave of them, must certainly be, were not rather
encouraged to be instructors of others in wisdom and knowledge.” In
answer to which I assured his honour, “that in all points out of their
own trade, they were usually the most ignorant and stupid generation
among us, the most despicable in common conversation, avowed enemies to
all knowledge and learning, and equally disposed to pervert the general
reason of mankind in every other subject of discourse as in that of
their own profession.”


CHAPTER VI.

A continuation of the state of England under Queen Anne. The character
of a first minister of state in European courts.


My master was yet wholly at a loss to understand what motives could
incite this race of lawyers to perplex, disquiet, and weary themselves,
and engage in a confederacy of injustice, merely for the sake of
injuring their fellow-animals; neither could he comprehend what I meant
in saying, they did it for hire. Whereupon I was at much pains to
describe to him the use of money, the materials it was made of, and the
value of the metals; “that when a Yahoo had got a great store of this
precious substance, he was able to purchase whatever he had a mind to;
the finest clothing, the noblest houses, great tracts of land, the most
costly meats and drinks, and have his choice of the most beautiful
females. Therefore since money alone was able to perform all these
feats, our Yahoos thought they could never have enough of it to
spend, or to save, as they found themselves inclined, from their
natural bent either to profusion or avarice; that the rich man enjoyed
the fruit of the poor man’s labour, and the latter were a thousand to
one in proportion to the former; that the bulk of our people were
forced to live miserably, by labouring every day for small wages, to
make a few live plentifully.”

I enlarged myself much on these, and many other particulars to the same
purpose; but his honour was still to seek; for he went upon a
supposition, that all animals had a title to their share in the
productions of the earth, and especially those who presided over the
rest. Therefore he desired I would let him know, “what these costly
meats were, and how any of us happened to want them?” Whereupon I
enumerated as many sorts as came into my head, with the various methods
of dressing them, which could not be done without sending vessels by
sea to every part of the world, as well for liquors to drink as for
sauces and innumerable other conveniences. I assured him “that this
whole globe of earth must be at least three times gone round before one
of our better female Yahoos could get her breakfast, or a cup to put
it in.” He said “that must needs be a miserable country which cannot
furnish food for its own inhabitants. But what he chiefly wondered at
was, how such vast tracts of ground as I described should be wholly
without fresh water, and the people put to the necessity of sending
over the sea for drink.” I replied “that England (the dear place of my
nativity) was computed to produce three times the quantity of food more
than its inhabitants are able to consume, as well as liquors extracted
from grain, or pressed out of the fruit of certain trees, which made
excellent drink, and the same proportion in every other convenience of
life. But, in order to feed the luxury and intemperance of the males,
and the vanity of the females, we sent away the greatest part of our
necessary things to other countries, whence, in return, we brought the
materials of diseases, folly, and vice, to spend among ourselves. Hence
it follows of necessity, that vast numbers of our people are compelled
to seek their livelihood by begging, robbing, stealing, cheating,
pimping, flattering, suborning, forswearing, forging, gaming, lying,
fawning, hectoring, voting, scribbling, star-gazing, poisoning,
whoring, canting, libelling, freethinking, and the like occupations:”
every one of which terms I was at much pains to make him understand.

“That wine was not imported among us from foreign countries to supply
the want of water or other drinks, but because it was a sort of liquid
which made us merry by putting us out of our senses, diverted all
melancholy thoughts, begat wild extravagant imaginations in the brain,
raised our hopes and banished our fears, suspended every office of
reason for a time, and deprived us of the use of our limbs, till we
fell into a profound sleep; although it must be confessed, that we
always awaked sick and dispirited; and that the use of this liquor
filled us with diseases which made our lives uncomfortable and short.

“But beside all this, the bulk of our people supported themselves by
furnishing the necessities or conveniences of life to the rich and to
each other. For instance, when I am at home, and dressed as I ought to
be, I carry on my body the workmanship of a hundred tradesmen; the
building and furniture of my house employ as many more, and five times
the number to adorn my wife.”

I was going on to tell him of another sort of people, who get their
livelihood by attending the sick, having, upon some occasions, informed
his honour that many of my crew had died of diseases. But here it was
with the utmost difficulty that I brought him to apprehend what I
meant. “He could easily conceive, that a Houyhnhnm, grew weak and
heavy a few days before his death, or by some accident might hurt a
limb; but that nature, who works all things to perfection, should
suffer any pains to breed in our bodies, he thought impossible, and
desired to know the reason of so unaccountable an evil.”

I told him “we fed on a thousand things which operated contrary to each
other; that we ate when we were not hungry, and drank without the
provocation of thirst; that we sat whole nights drinking strong
liquors, without eating a bit, which disposed us to sloth, inflamed our
bodies, and precipitated or prevented digestion; that prostitute female
Yahoos acquired a certain malady, which bred rottenness in the bones
of those who fell into their embraces; that this, and many other
diseases, were propagated from father to son; so that great numbers
came into the world with complicated maladies upon them; that it would
be endless to give him a catalogue of all diseases incident to human
bodies, for they would not be fewer than five or six hundred, spread
over every limb and joint—in short, every part, external and intestine,
having diseases appropriated to itself. To remedy which, there was a
sort of people bred up among us in the profession, or pretence, of
curing the sick. And because I had some skill in the faculty, I would,
in gratitude to his honour, let him know the whole mystery and method
by which they proceed.

“Their fundamental is, that all diseases arise from repletion; whence
they conclude, that a great evacuation of the body is necessary, either
through the natural passage or upwards at the mouth. Their next
business is from herbs, minerals, gums, oils, shells, salts, juices,
sea-weed, excrements, barks of trees, serpents, toads, frogs, spiders,
dead men’s flesh and bones, birds, beasts, and fishes, to form a
composition, for smell and taste, the most abominable, nauseous, and
detestable, they can possibly contrive, which the stomach immediately
rejects with loathing, and this they call a vomit; or else, from the
same store-house, with some other poisonous additions, they command us
to take in at the orifice above or below (just as the physician then
happens to be disposed) a medicine equally annoying and disgustful to
the bowels; which, relaxing the belly, drives down all before it; and
this they call a purge, or a clyster. For nature (as the physicians
allege) having intended the superior anterior orifice only for the
intromission of solids and liquids, and the inferior posterior for
ejection, these artists ingeniously considering that in all diseases
nature is forced out of her seat, therefore, to replace her in it, the
body must be treated in a manner directly contrary, by interchanging
the use of each orifice; forcing solids and liquids in at the anus, and
making evacuations at the mouth.

“But, besides real diseases, we are subject to many that are only
imaginary, for which the physicians have invented imaginary cures;
these have their several names, and so have the drugs that are proper
for them; and with these our female Yahoos are always infested.

“One great excellency in this tribe, is their skill at prognostics,
wherein they seldom fail; their predictions in real diseases, when they
rise to any degree of malignity, generally portending death, which is
always in their power, when recovery is not: and therefore, upon any
unexpected signs of amendment, after they have pronounced their
sentence, rather than be accused as false prophets, they know how to
approve their sagacity to the world, by a seasonable dose.

“They are likewise of special use to husbands and wives who are grown
weary of their mates; to eldest sons, to great ministers of state, and
often to princes.”

I had formerly, upon occasion, discoursed with my master upon the
nature of government in general, and particularly of our own excellent
constitution, deservedly the wonder and envy of the whole world. But
having here accidentally mentioned a minister of state, he commanded
me, some time after, to inform him, “what species of Yahoo I
particularly meant by that appellation.”

I told him, “that a first or chief minister of state, who was the
person I intended to describe, was the creature wholly exempt from joy
and grief, love and hatred, pity and anger; at least, makes use of no
other passions, but a violent desire of wealth, power, and titles; that
he applies his words to all uses, except to the indication of his mind;
that he never tells a truth but with an intent that you should take it
for a lie; nor a lie, but with a design that you should take it for a
truth; that those he speaks worst of behind their backs are in the
surest way of preferment; and whenever he begins to praise you to
others, or to yourself, you are from that day forlorn. The worst mark
you can receive is a promise, especially when it is confirmed with an
oath; after which, every wise man retires, and gives over all hopes.

“There are three methods, by which a man may rise to be chief minister.
The first is, by knowing how, with prudence, to dispose of a wife, a
daughter, or a sister; the second, by betraying or undermining his
predecessor; and the third is, by a furious zeal, in public assemblies,
against the corruptions of the court. But a wise prince would rather
choose to employ those who practise the last of these methods; because
such zealots prove always the most obsequious and subservient to the
will and passions of their master. That these ministers, having all
employments at their disposal, preserve themselves in power, by bribing
the majority of a senate or great council; and at last, by an
expedient, called an act of indemnity” (whereof I described the nature
to him), “they secure themselves from after-reckonings, and retire from
the public laden with the spoils of the nation.

“The palace of a chief minister is a seminary to breed up others in his
own trade: the pages, lackeys, and porters, by imitating their master,
become ministers of state in their several districts, and learn to
excel in the three principal ingredients, of insolence, lying, and
bribery. Accordingly, they have a subaltern court paid to them by
persons of the best rank; and sometimes by the force of dexterity and
impudence, arrive, through several gradations, to be successors to
their lord.

“He is usually governed by a decayed wench, or favourite footman, who
are the tunnels through which all graces are conveyed, and may properly
be called, in the last resort, the governors of the kingdom.”

One day, in discourse, my master, having heard me mention the nobility
of my country, was pleased to make me a compliment which I could not
pretend to deserve: “that he was sure I must have been born of some
noble family, because I far exceeded in shape, colour, and cleanliness,
all the Yahoos of his nation, although I seemed to fail in strength
and agility, which must be imputed to my different way of living from
those other brutes; and besides I was not only endowed with the faculty
of speech, but likewise with some rudiments of reason, to a degree
that, with all his acquaintance, I passed for a prodigy.”

He made me observe, “that among the Houyhnhnms, the white, the
sorrel, and the iron-gray, were not so exactly shaped as the bay, the
dapple-gray, and the black; nor born with equal talents of mind, or a
capacity to improve them; and therefore continued always in the
condition of servants, without ever aspiring to match out of their own
race, which in that country would be reckoned monstrous and unnatural.”

I made his honour my most humble acknowledgments for the good opinion
he was pleased to conceive of me, but assured him at the same time,
“that my birth was of the lower sort, having been born of plain honest
parents, who were just able to give me a tolerable education; that
nobility, among us, was altogether a different thing from the idea he
had of it; that our young noblemen are bred from their childhood in
idleness and luxury; that, as soon as years will permit, they consume
their vigour, and contract odious diseases among lewd females; and when
their fortunes are almost ruined, they marry some woman of mean birth,
disagreeable person, and unsound constitution (merely for the sake of
money), whom they hate and despise. That the productions of such
marriages are generally scrofulous, rickety, or deformed children; by
which means the family seldom continues above three generations, unless
the wife takes care to provide a healthy father, among her neighbours
or domestics, in order to improve and continue the breed. That a weak
diseased body, a meagre countenance, and sallow complexion, are the
true marks of noble blood; and a healthy robust appearance is so
disgraceful in a man of quality, that the world concludes his real
father to have been a groom or a coachman. The imperfections of his
mind run parallel with those of his body, being a composition of
spleen, dullness, ignorance, caprice, sensuality, and pride.

“Without the consent of this illustrious body, no law can be enacted,
repealed, or altered: and these nobles have likewise the decision of
all our possessions, without appeal.” [514]


CHAPTER VII.

The author’s great love of his native country. His master’s
observations upon the constitution and administration of England, as
described by the author, with parallel cases and comparisons. His
master’s observations upon human nature.


The reader may be disposed to wonder how I could prevail on myself to
give so free a representation of my own species, among a race of
mortals who are already too apt to conceive the vilest opinion of
humankind, from that entire congruity between me and their Yahoos.
But I must freely confess, that the many virtues of those excellent
quadrupeds, placed in opposite view to human corruptions, had so far
opened my eyes and enlarged my understanding, that I began to view the
actions and passions of man in a very different light, and to think the
honour of my own kind not worth managing; which, besides, it was
impossible for me to do, before a person of so acute a judgment as my
master, who daily convinced me of a thousand faults in myself, whereof
I had not the least perception before, and which, with us, would never
be numbered even among human infirmities. I had likewise learned, from
his example, an utter detestation of all falsehood or disguise; and
truth appeared so amiable to me, that I determined upon sacrificing
every thing to it.

Let me deal so candidly with the reader as to confess that there was
yet a much stronger motive for the freedom I took in my representation
of things. I had not yet been a year in this country before I
contracted such a love and veneration for the inhabitants, that I
entered on a firm resolution never to return to humankind, but to pass
the rest of my life among these admirable Houyhnhnms, in the
contemplation and practice of every virtue, where I could have no
example or incitement to vice. But it was decreed by fortune, my
perpetual enemy, that so great a felicity should not fall to my share.
However, it is now some comfort to reflect, that in what I said of my
countrymen, I extenuated their faults as much as I durst before so
strict an examiner; and upon every article gave as favourable a turn as
the matter would bear. For, indeed, who is there alive that will not be
swayed by his bias and partiality to the place of his birth?

I have related the substance of several conversations I had with my
master during the greatest part of the time I had the honour to be in
his service; but have, indeed, for brevity sake, omitted much more than
is here set down.

When I had answered all his questions, and his curiosity seemed to be
fully satisfied, he sent for me one morning early, and commanded me to
sit down at some distance (an honour which he had never before
conferred upon me). He said, “he had been very seriously considering my
whole story, as far as it related both to myself and my country; that
he looked upon us as a sort of animals, to whose share, by what
accident he could not conjecture, some small pittance of reason had
fallen, whereof we made no other use, than by its assistance, to
aggravate our natural corruptions, and to acquire new ones, which
nature had not given us; that we disarmed ourselves of the few
abilities she had bestowed; had been very successful in multiplying our
original wants, and seemed to spend our whole lives in vain endeavours
to supply them by our own inventions; that, as to myself, it was
manifest I had neither the strength nor agility of a common Yahoo;
that I walked infirmly on my hinder feet; had found out a contrivance
to make my claws of no use or defence, and to remove the hair from my
chin, which was intended as a shelter from the sun and the weather:
lastly, that I could neither run with speed, nor climb trees like my
brethren,” as he called them, “the Yahoos in his country.

“That our institutions of government and law were plainly owing to our
gross defects in reason, and by consequence in virtue; because reason
alone is sufficient to govern a rational creature; which was,
therefore, a character we had no pretence to challenge, even from the
account I had given of my own people; although he manifestly perceived,
that, in order to favour them, I had concealed many particulars, and
often said the thing which was not.

“He was the more confirmed in this opinion, because, he observed, that
as I agreed in every feature of my body with other Yahoos, except
where it was to my real disadvantage in point of strength, speed, and
activity, the shortness of my claws, and some other particulars where
nature had no part; so from the representation I had given him of our
lives, our manners, and our actions, he found as near a resemblance in
the disposition of our minds.” He said, “the Yahoos were known to
hate one another, more than they did any different species of animals;
and the reason usually assigned was, the odiousness of their own
shapes, which all could see in the rest, but not in themselves. He had
therefore begun to think it not unwise in us to cover our bodies, and
by that invention conceal many of our deformities from each other,
which would else be hardly supportable. But he now found he had been
mistaken, and that the dissensions of those brutes in his country were
owing to the same cause with ours, as I had described them. For if,”
said he, “you throw among five Yahoos as much food as would be
sufficient for fifty, they will, instead of eating peaceably, fall
together by the ears, each single one impatient to have all to itself;
and therefore a servant was usually employed to stand by while they
were feeding abroad, and those kept at home were tied at a distance
from each other: that if a cow died of age or accident, before a
Houyhnhnm could secure it for his own Yahoos, those in the
neighbourhood would come in herds to seize it, and then would ensue
such a battle as I had described, with terrible wounds made by their
claws on both sides, although they seldom were able to kill one
another, for want of such convenient instruments of death as we had
invented. At other times, the like battles have been fought between the
Yahoos of several neighbourhoods, without any visible cause; those of
one district watching all opportunities to surprise the next, before
they are prepared. But if they find their project has miscarried, they
return home, and, for want of enemies, engage in what I call a civil
war among themselves.

“That in some fields of his country there are certain shining stones of
several colours, whereof the Yahoos are violently fond: and when part
of these stones is fixed in the earth, as it sometimes happens, they
will dig with their claws for whole days to get them out; then carry
them away, and hide them by heaps in their kennels; but still looking
round with great caution, for fear their comrades should find out their
treasure.” My master said, “he could never discover the reason of this
unnatural appetite, or how these stones could be of any use to a
Yahoo; but now he believed it might proceed from the same principle
of avarice which I had ascribed to mankind. That he had once, by way of
experiment, privately removed a heap of these stones from the place
where one of his Yahoos had buried it; whereupon the sordid animal,
missing his treasure, by his loud lamenting brought the whole herd to
the place, there miserably howled, then fell to biting and tearing the
rest, began to pine away, would neither eat, nor sleep, nor work, till
he ordered a servant privately to convey the stones into the same hole,
and hide them as before; which, when his Yahoo had found, he
presently recovered his spirits and good humour, but took good care to
remove them to a better hiding place, and has ever since been a very
serviceable brute.”

My master further assured me, which I also observed myself, “that in
the fields where the shining stones abound, the fiercest and most
frequent battles are fought, occasioned by perpetual inroads of the
neighbouring Yahoos.”

He said, “it was common, when two Yahoos discovered such a stone in a
field, and were contending which of them should be the proprietor, a
third would take the advantage, and carry it away from them both;”
which my master would needs contend to have some kind of resemblance
with our suits at law; wherein I thought it for our credit not to
undeceive him; since the decision he mentioned was much more equitable
than many decrees among us; because the plaintiff and defendant there
lost nothing beside the stone they contended for: whereas our courts of
equity would never have dismissed the cause, while either of them had
any thing left.

My master, continuing his discourse, said, “there was nothing that
rendered the Yahoos more odious, than their undistinguishing appetite
to devour every thing that came in their way, whether herbs, roots,
berries, the corrupted flesh of animals, or all mingled together: and
it was peculiar in their temper, that they were fonder of what they
could get by rapine or stealth, at a greater distance, than much better
food provided for them at home. If their prey held out, they would eat
till they were ready to burst; after which, nature had pointed out to
them a certain root that gave them a general evacuation.

“There was also another kind of root, very juicy, but somewhat rare and
difficult to be found, which the Yahoos sought for with much
eagerness, and would suck it with great delight; it produced in them
the same effects that wine has upon us. It would make them sometimes
hug, and sometimes tear one another; they would howl, and grin, and
chatter, and reel, and tumble, and then fall asleep in the mud.”

I did indeed observe that the Yahoos were the only animals in this
country subject to any diseases; which, however, were much fewer than
horses have among us, and contracted, not by any ill-treatment they
meet with, but by the nastiness and greediness of that sordid brute.
Neither has their language any more than a general appellation for
those maladies, which is borrowed from the name of the beast, and
called hnea-yahoo, or Yahoo’s evil; and the cure prescribed is a
mixture of their own dung and urine, forcibly put down the Yahoo’s
throat. This I have since often known to have been taken with success,
and do here freely recommend it to my countrymen for the public good,
as an admirable specific against all diseases produced by repletion.

“As to learning, government, arts, manufactures, and the like,” my
master confessed, “he could find little or no resemblance between the
Yahoos of that country and those in ours; for he only meant to
observe what parity there was in our natures. He had heard, indeed,
some curious Houyhnhnms observe, that in most herds there was a sort
of ruling Yahoo (as among us there is generally some leading or
principal stag in a park), who was always more deformed in body, and
mischievous in disposition, than any of the rest; that this leader had
usually a favourite as like himself as he could get, whose employment
was to lick his master’s feet and posteriors, and drive the female
Yahoos to his kennel; for which he was now and then rewarded with a
piece of ass’s flesh. This favourite is hated by the whole herd, and
therefore, to protect himself, keeps always near the person of his
leader. He usually continues in office till a worse can be found; but
the very moment he is discarded, his successor, at the head of all the
Yahoos in that district, young and old, male and female, come in a
body, and discharge their excrements upon him from head to foot. But
how far this might be applicable to our courts, and favourites, and
ministers of state, my master said I could best determine.”

I durst make no return to this malicious insinuation, which debased
human understanding below the sagacity of a common hound, who has
judgment enough to distinguish and follow the cry of the ablest dog in
the pack, without being ever mistaken.

My master told me, “there were some qualities remarkable in the
Yahoos, which he had not observed me to mention, or at least very
slightly, in the accounts I had given of humankind.” He said, “those
animals, like other brutes, had their females in common; but in this
they differed, that the she Yahoo would admit the males while she was
pregnant; and that the hes would quarrel and fight with the females, as
fiercely as with each other; both which practices were such degrees of
infamous brutality, as no other sensitive creature ever arrived at.

“Another thing he wondered at in the Yahoos, was their strange
disposition to nastiness and dirt; whereas there appears to be a
natural love of cleanliness in all other animals.” As to the two former
accusations, I was glad to let them pass without any reply, because I
had not a word to offer upon them in defence of my species, which
otherwise I certainly had done from my own inclinations. But I could
have easily vindicated humankind from the imputation of singularity
upon the last article, if there had been any swine in that country (as
unluckily for me there were not), which, although it may be a sweeter
quadruped than a Yahoo, cannot, I humbly conceive, in justice,
pretend to more cleanliness; and so his honour himself must have owned,
if he had seen their filthy way of feeding, and their custom of
wallowing and sleeping in the mud.

My master likewise mentioned another quality which his servants had
discovered in several Yahoos, and to him was wholly unaccountable. He
said, “a fancy would sometimes take a Yahoo to retire into a corner,
to lie down, and howl, and groan, and spurn away all that came near
him, although he were young and fat, wanted neither food nor water, nor
did the servant imagine what could possibly ail him. And the only
remedy they found was, to set him to hard work, after which he would
infallibly come to himself.” To this I was silent out of partiality to
my own kind; yet here I could plainly discover the true seeds of
spleen, which only seizes on the lazy, the luxurious, and the rich;
who, if they were forced to undergo the same regimen, I would undertake
for the cure.

His honour had further observed, “that a female Yahoo would often
stand behind a bank or a bush, to gaze on the young males passing by,
and then appear, and hide, using many antic gestures and grimaces, at
which time it was observed that she had a most offensive smell; and
when any of the males advanced, would slowly retire, looking often
back, and with a counterfeit show of fear, run off into some convenient
place, where she knew the male would follow her.

“At other times, if a female stranger came among them, three or four of
her own sex would get about her, and stare, and chatter, and grin, and
smell her all over; and then turn off with gestures, that seemed to
express contempt and disdain.”

Perhaps my master might refine a little in these speculations, which he
had drawn from what he observed himself, or had been told him by
others; however, I could not reflect without some amazement, and much
sorrow, that the rudiments of lewdness, coquetry, censure, and scandal,
should have place by instinct in womankind.

I expected every moment that my master would accuse the Yahoos of
those unnatural appetites in both sexes, so common among us. But
nature, it seems, has not been so expert a school-mistress; and these
politer pleasures are entirely the productions of art and reason on our
side of the globe.


CHAPTER VIII.

The author relates several particulars of the Yahoos. The great
virtues of the Houyhnhnms. The education and exercise of their youth.
Their general assembly.


As I ought to have understood human nature much better than I supposed
it possible for my master to do, so it was easy to apply the character
he gave of the Yahoos to myself and my countrymen; and I believed I
could yet make further discoveries, from my own observation. I
therefore often begged his honour to let me go among the herds of
Yahoos in the neighbourhood; to which he always very graciously
consented, being perfectly convinced that the hatred I bore these
brutes would never suffer me to be corrupted by them; and his honour
ordered one of his servants, a strong sorrel nag, very honest and
good-natured, to be my guard; without whose protection I durst not
undertake such adventures. For I have already told the reader how much
I was pestered by these odious animals, upon my first arrival; and I
afterwards failed very narrowly, three or four times, of falling into
their clutches, when I happened to stray at any distance without my
hanger. And I have reason to believe they had some imagination that I
was of their own species, which I often assisted myself by stripping up
my sleeves, and showing my naked arms and breast in their sight, when
my protector was with me. At which times they would approach as near as
they durst, and imitate my actions after the manner of monkeys, but
ever with great signs of hatred; as a tame jackdaw with cap and
stockings is always persecuted by the wild ones, when he happens to be
got among them.

They are prodigiously nimble from their infancy. However, I once caught
a young male of three years old, and endeavoured, by all marks of
tenderness, to make it quiet; but the little imp fell a squalling and
scratching and biting with such violence, that I was forced to let it
go; and it was high time, for a whole troop of old ones came about us
at the noise, but finding the cub was safe (for away it ran), and my
sorrel nag being by, they durst not venture near us. I observed the
young animal’s flesh to smell very rank, and the stink was somewhat
between a weasel and a fox, but much more disagreeable. I forgot
another circumstance (and perhaps I might have the reader’s pardon if
it were wholly omitted), that while I held the odious vermin in my
hands, it voided its filthy excrements of a yellow liquid substance all
over my clothes; but by good fortune there was a small brook hard by,
where I washed myself as clean as I could; although I durst not come
into my master’s presence until I were sufficiently aired.

By what I could discover, the Yahoos appear to be the most
unteachable of all animals, their capacity never reaching higher than
to draw or carry burdens. Yet I am of opinion this defect arises
chiefly from a perverse, restive disposition; for they are cunning,
malicious, treacherous, and revengeful. They are strong and hardy, but
of a cowardly spirit, and, by consequence, insolent, abject, and cruel.
It is observed, that the red haired of both sexes are more libidinous
and mischievous than the rest, whom yet they much exceed in strength
and activity.

The Houyhnhnms keep the Yahoos for present use in huts not far from
the house; but the rest are sent abroad to certain fields, where they
dig up roots, eat several kinds of herbs, and search about for carrion,
or sometimes catch weasels and luhimuhs (a sort of wild rat), which
they greedily devour. Nature has taught them to dig deep holes with
their nails on the side of a rising ground, wherein they lie by
themselves; only the kennels of the females are larger, sufficient to
hold two or three cubs.

They swim from their infancy like frogs, and are able to continue long
under water, where they often take fish, which the females carry home
to their young. And, upon this occasion, I hope the reader will pardon
my relating an odd adventure.

Being one day abroad with my protector the sorrel nag, and the weather
exceeding hot, I entreated him to let me bathe in a river that was
near. He consented, and I immediately stripped myself stark naked, and
went down softly into the stream. It happened that a young female
Yahoo, standing behind a bank, saw the whole proceeding, and inflamed
by desire, as the nag and I conjectured, came running with all speed,
and leaped into the water, within five yards of the place where I
bathed. I was never in my life so terribly frightened. The nag was
grazing at some distance, not suspecting any harm. She embraced me
after a most fulsome manner. I roared as loud as I could, and the nag
came galloping towards me, whereupon she quitted her grasp, with the
utmost reluctancy, and leaped upon the opposite bank, where she stood
gazing and howling all the time I was putting on my clothes.

This was a matter of diversion to my master and his family, as well as
of mortification to myself. For now I could no longer deny that I was a
real Yahoo in every limb and feature, since the females had a natural
propensity to me, as one of their own species. Neither was the hair of
this brute of a red colour (which might have been some excuse for an
appetite a little irregular), but black as a sloe, and her countenance
did not make an appearance altogether so hideous as the rest of her
kind; for I think she could not be above eleven years old.

Having lived three years in this country, the reader, I suppose, will
expect that I should, like other travellers, give him some account of
the manners and customs of its inhabitants, which it was indeed my
principal study to learn.

As these noble Houyhnhnms are endowed by nature with a general
disposition to all virtues, and have no conceptions or ideas of what is
evil in a rational creature, so their grand maxim is, to cultivate
reason, and to be wholly governed by it. Neither is reason among them a
point problematical, as with us, where men can argue with plausibility
on both sides of the question, but strikes you with immediate
conviction; as it must needs do, where it is not mingled, obscured, or
discoloured, by passion and interest. I remember it was with extreme
difficulty that I could bring my master to understand the meaning of
the word opinion, or how a point could be disputable; because reason
taught us to affirm or deny only where we are certain; and beyond our
knowledge we cannot do either. So that controversies, wranglings,
disputes, and positiveness, in false or dubious propositions, are evils
unknown among the Houyhnhnms. In the like manner, when I used to
explain to him our several systems of natural philosophy, he would
laugh, “that a creature pretending to reason, should value itself upon
the knowledge of other people’s conjectures, and in things where that
knowledge, if it were certain, could be of no use.” Wherein he agreed
entirely with the sentiments of Socrates, as Plato delivers them; which
I mention as the highest honour I can do that prince of philosophers. I
have often since reflected, what destruction such doctrine would make
in the libraries of Europe; and how many paths of fame would be then
shut up in the learned world.

Friendship and benevolence are the two principal virtues among the
Houyhnhnms; and these not confined to particular objects, but
universal to the whole race; for a stranger from the remotest part is
equally treated with the nearest neighbour, and wherever he goes, looks
upon himself as at home. They preserve decency and civility in the
highest degrees, but are altogether ignorant of ceremony. They have no
fondness for their colts or foals, but the care they take in educating
them proceeds entirely from the dictates of reason. And I observed my
master to show the same affection to his neighbour’s issue, that he had
for his own. They will have it that nature teaches them to love the
whole species, and it is reason only that makes a distinction of
persons, where there is a superior degree of virtue.

When the matron Houyhnhnms have produced one of each sex, they no
longer accompany with their consorts, except they lose one of their
issue by some casualty, which very seldom happens; but in such a case
they meet again; or when the like accident befalls a person whose wife
is past bearing, some other couple bestow on him one of their own
colts, and then go together again until the mother is pregnant. This
caution is necessary, to prevent the country from being overburdened
with numbers. But the race of inferior Houyhnhnms, bred up to be
servants, is not so strictly limited upon this article: these are
allowed to produce three of each sex, to be domestics in the noble
families.

In their marriages, they are exactly careful to choose such colours as
will not make any disagreeable mixture in the breed. Strength is
chiefly valued in the male, and comeliness in the female; not upon the
account of love, but to preserve the race from degenerating; for where
a female happens to excel in strength, a consort is chosen, with regard
to comeliness.

Courtship, love, presents, jointures, settlements have no place in
their thoughts, or terms whereby to express them in their language. The
young couple meet, and are joined, merely because it is the
determination of their parents and friends; it is what they see done
every day, and they look upon it as one of the necessary actions of a
reasonable being. But the violation of marriage, or any other
unchastity, was never heard of; and the married pair pass their lives
with the same friendship and mutual benevolence, that they bear to all
others of the same species who come in their way, without jealousy,
fondness, quarrelling, or discontent.

In educating the youth of both sexes, their method is admirable, and
highly deserves our imitation. These are not suffered to taste a grain
of oats, except upon certain days, till eighteen years old; nor milk,
but very rarely; and in summer they graze two hours in the morning, and
as many in the evening, which their parents likewise observe; but the
servants are not allowed above half that time, and a great part of
their grass is brought home, which they eat at the most convenient
hours, when they can be best spared from work.

Temperance, industry, exercise, and cleanliness, are the lessons
equally enjoined to the young ones of both sexes: and my master thought
it monstrous in us, to give the females a different kind of education
from the males, except in some articles of domestic management;
whereby, as he truly observed, one half of our natives were good for
nothing but bringing children into the world; and to trust the care of
our children to such useless animals, he said, was yet a greater
instance of brutality.

But the Houyhnhnms train up their youth to strength, speed, and
hardiness, by exercising them in running races up and down steep hills,
and over hard stony grounds; and when they are all in a sweat, they are
ordered to leap over head and ears into a pond or river. Four times a
year the youth of a certain district meet to show their proficiency in
running and leaping, and other feats of strength and agility; where the
victor is rewarded with a song in his or her praise. On this festival,
the servants drive a herd of Yahoos into the field, laden with hay,
and oats, and milk, for a repast to the Houyhnhnms; after which,
these brutes are immediately driven back again, for fear of being
noisome to the assembly.

Every fourth year, at the vernal equinox, there is a representative
council of the whole nation, which meets in a plain about twenty miles
from our house, and continues about five or six days. Here they inquire
into the state and condition of the several districts; whether they
abound or be deficient in hay or oats, or cows, or Yahoos; and
wherever there is any want (which is but seldom) it is immediately
supplied by unanimous consent and contribution. Here likewise the
regulation of children is settled: as for instance, if a Houyhnhnm
has two males, he changes one of them with another that has two
females; and when a child has been lost by any casualty, where the
mother is past breeding, it is determined what family in the district
shall breed another to supply the loss.


CHAPTER IX.

A grand debate at the general assembly of the Houyhnhnms, and how it
was determined. The learning of the Houyhnhnms. Their buildings.
Their manner of burials. The defectiveness of their language.


One of these grand assemblies was held in my time, about three months
before my departure, whither my master went as the representative of
our district. In this council was resumed their old debate, and indeed
the only debate that ever happened in their country; whereof my master,
after his return, gave me a very particular account.

The question to be debated was, “whether the Yahoos should be
exterminated from the face of the earth?” One of the members for the
affirmative offered several arguments of great strength and weight,
alleging, “that as the Yahoos were the most filthy, noisome, and
deformed animals which nature ever produced, so they were the most
restive and indocible, mischievous and malicious; they would privately
suck the teats of the Houyhnhnms’ cows, kill and devour their cats,
trample down their oats and grass, if they were not continually
watched, and commit a thousand other extravagancies.” He took notice of
a general tradition, “that Yahoos had not been always in their
country; but that many ages ago, two of these brutes appeared together
upon a mountain; whether produced by the heat of the sun upon corrupted
mud and slime, or from the ooze and froth of the sea, was never known;
that these Yahoos engendered, and their brood, in a short time, grew
so numerous as to overrun and infest the whole nation; that the
Houyhnhnms, to get rid of this evil, made a general hunting, and at
last enclosed the whole herd; and destroying the elder, every
Houyhnhnm kept two young ones in a kennel, and brought them to such a
degree of tameness, as an animal, so savage by nature, can be capable
of acquiring, using them for draught and carriage; that there seemed to
be much truth in this tradition, and that those creatures could not be
yinhniamshy (or aborigines of the land), because of the violent
hatred the Houyhnhnms, as well as all other animals, bore them,
which, although their evil disposition sufficiently deserved, could
never have arrived at so high a degree if they had been aborigines,
or else they would have long since been rooted out; that the
inhabitants, taking a fancy to use the service of the Yahoos, had,
very imprudently, neglected to cultivate the breed of asses, which are
a comely animal, easily kept, more tame and orderly, without any
offensive smell, strong enough for labour, although they yield to the
other in agility of body, and if their braying be no agreeable sound,
it is far preferable to the horrible howlings of the Yahoos.”

Several others declared their sentiments to the same purpose, when my
master proposed an expedient to the assembly, whereof he had indeed
borrowed the hint from me. “He approved of the tradition mentioned by
the honourable member who spoke before, and affirmed, that the two
Yahoos said to be seen first among them, had been driven thither over
the sea; that coming to land, and being forsaken by their companions,
they retired to the mountains, and degenerating by degrees, became in
process of time much more savage than those of their own species in the
country whence these two originals came. The reason of this assertion
was, that he had now in his possession a certain wonderful Yahoo
(meaning myself) which most of them had heard of, and many of them had
seen. He then related to them how he first found me; that my body was
all covered with an artificial composure of the skins and hairs of
other animals; that I spoke in a language of my own, and had thoroughly
learned theirs; that I had related to him the accidents which brought
me thither; that when he saw me without my covering, I was an exact
Yahoo in every part, only of a whiter colour, less hairy, and with
shorter claws. He added, how I had endeavoured to persuade him, that in
my own and other countries, the Yahoos acted as the governing,
rational animal, and held the Houyhnhnms in servitude; that he
observed in me all the qualities of a Yahoo, only a little more
civilized by some tincture of reason, which, however, was in a degree
as far inferior to the Houyhnhnm race, as the Yahoos of their
country were to me; that, among other things, I mentioned a custom we
had of castrating Houyhnhnms when they were young, in order to render
them tame; that the operation was easy and safe; that it was no shame
to learn wisdom from brutes, as industry is taught by the ant, and
building by the swallow (for so I translate the word lyhannh,
although it be a much larger fowl); that this invention might be
practised upon the younger Yahoos here, which besides rendering them
tractable and fitter for use, would in an age put an end to the whole
species, without destroying life; that in the mean time the
Houyhnhnms should be exhorted to cultivate the breed of asses, which,
as they are in all respects more valuable brutes, so they have this
advantage, to be fit for service at five years old, which the others
are not till twelve.”

This was all my master thought fit to tell me, at that time, of what
passed in the grand council. But he was pleased to conceal one
particular, which related personally to myself, whereof I soon felt the
unhappy effect, as the reader will know in its proper place, and whence
I date all the succeeding misfortunes of my life.

The Houyhnhnms have no letters, and consequently their knowledge is
all traditional. But there happening few events of any moment among a
people so well united, naturally disposed to every virtue, wholly
governed by reason, and cut off from all commerce with other nations,
the historical part is easily preserved without burdening their
memories. I have already observed that they are subject to no diseases,
and therefore can have no need of physicians. However, they have
excellent medicines, composed of herbs, to cure accidental bruises and
cuts in the pastern or frog of the foot, by sharp stones, as well as
other maims and hurts in the several parts of the body.

They calculate the year by the revolution of the sun and moon, but use
no subdivisions into weeks. They are well enough acquainted with the
motions of those two luminaries, and understand the nature of eclipses;
and this is the utmost progress of their astronomy.

In poetry, they must be allowed to excel all other mortals; wherein the
justness of their similes, and the minuteness as well as exactness of
their descriptions, are indeed inimitable. Their verses abound very
much in both of these, and usually contain either some exalted notions
of friendship and benevolence or the praises of those who were victors
in races and other bodily exercises. Their buildings, although very
rude and simple, are not inconvenient, but well contrived to defend
them from all injuries of cold and heat. They have a kind of tree,
which at forty years old loosens in the root, and falls with the first
storm: it grows very straight, and being pointed like stakes with a
sharp stone (for the Houyhnhnms know not the use of iron), they stick
them erect in the ground, about ten inches asunder, and then weave in
oat straw, or sometimes wattles, between them. The roof is made after
the same manner, and so are the doors.

The Houyhnhnms use the hollow part, between the pastern and the hoof
of their fore-foot, as we do our hands, and this with greater dexterity
than I could at first imagine. I have seen a white mare of our family
thread a needle (which I lent her on purpose) with that joint. They
milk their cows, reap their oats, and do all the work which requires
hands, in the same manner. They have a kind of hard flints, which, by
grinding against other stones, they form into instruments, that serve
instead of wedges, axes, and hammers. With tools made of these flints,
they likewise cut their hay, and reap their oats, which there grow
naturally in several fields; the Yahoos draw home the sheaves in
carriages, and the servants tread them in certain covered huts to get
out the grain, which is kept in stores. They make a rude kind of
earthen and wooden vessels, and bake the former in the sun.

If they can avoid casualties, they die only of old age, and are buried
in the obscurest places that can be found, their friends and relations
expressing neither joy nor grief at their departure; nor does the dying
person discover the least regret that he is leaving the world, any more
than if he were upon returning home from a visit to one of his
neighbours. I remember my master having once made an appointment with a
friend and his family to come to his house, upon some affair of
importance: on the day fixed, the mistress and her two children came
very late; she made two excuses, first for her husband, who, as she
said, happened that very morning to shnuwnh. The word is strongly
expressive in their language, but not easily rendered into English; it
signifies, “to retire to his first mother.” Her excuse for not coming
sooner, was, that her husband dying late in the morning, she was a good
while consulting her servants about a convenient place where his body
should be laid; and I observed, she behaved herself at our house as
cheerfully as the rest. She died about three months after.

They live generally to seventy, or seventy-five years, very seldom to
fourscore. Some weeks before their death, they feel a gradual decay;
but without pain. During this time they are much visited by their
friends, because they cannot go abroad with their usual ease and
satisfaction. However, about ten days before their death, which they
seldom fail in computing, they return the visits that have been made
them by those who are nearest in the neighbourhood, being carried in a
convenient sledge drawn by Yahoos; which vehicle they use, not only
upon this occasion, but when they grow old, upon long journeys, or when
they are lamed by any accident: and therefore when the dying
Houyhnhnms return those visits, they take a solemn leave of their
friends, as if they were going to some remote part of the country,
where they designed to pass the rest of their lives.

I know not whether it may be worth observing, that the Houyhnhnms
have no word in their language to express any thing that is evil,
except what they borrow from the deformities or ill qualities of the
Yahoos. Thus they denote the folly of a servant, an omission of a
child, a stone that cuts their feet, a continuance of foul or
unseasonable weather, and the like, by adding to each the epithet of
Yahoo. For instance, hhnm Yahoo; whnaholm Yahoo, ynlhmndwihlma
Yahoo, and an ill-contrived house ynholmhnmrohlnw Yahoo.

I could, with great pleasure, enlarge further upon the manners and
virtues of this excellent people; but intending in a short time to
publish a volume by itself, expressly upon that subject, I refer the
reader thither; and, in the mean time, proceed to relate my own sad
catastrophe.


CHAPTER X.

The author’s economy, and happy life among the Houyhnhnms. His great
improvement in virtue by conversing with them. Their conversations. The
author has notice given him by his master, that he must depart from the
country. He falls into a swoon for grief; but submits. He contrives and
finishes a canoe by the help of a fellow-servant, and puts to sea at a
venture.


I had settled my little economy to my own heart’s content. My master
had ordered a room to be made for me, after their manner, about six
yards from the house: the sides and floors of which I plastered with
clay, and covered with rush-mats of my own contriving. I had beaten
hemp, which there grows wild, and made of it a sort of ticking; this I
filled with the feathers of several birds I had taken with springes
made of Yahoos’ hairs, and were excellent food. I had worked two
chairs with my knife, the sorrel nag helping me in the grosser and more
laborious part. When my clothes were worn to rags, I made myself others
with the skins of rabbits, and of a certain beautiful animal, about the
same size, called nnuhnoh, the skin of which is covered with a fine
down. Of these I also made very tolerable stockings. I soled my shoes
with wood, which I cut from a tree, and fitted to the upper-leather;
and when this was worn out, I supplied it with the skins of Yahoos
dried in the sun. I often got honey out of hollow trees, which I
mingled with water, or ate with my bread. No man could more verify the
truth of these two maxims, “That nature is very easily satisfied;” and,
“That necessity is the mother of invention.” I enjoyed perfect health
of body, and tranquillity of mind; I did not feel the treachery or
inconstancy of a friend, nor the injuries of a secret or open enemy. I
had no occasion of bribing, flattering, or pimping, to procure the
favour of any great man, or of his minion; I wanted no fence against
fraud or oppression: here was neither physician to destroy my body, nor
lawyer to ruin my fortune; no informer to watch my words and actions,
or forge accusations against me for hire: here were no gibers,
censurers, backbiters, pickpockets, highwaymen, housebreakers,
attorneys, bawds, buffoons, gamesters, politicians, wits, splenetics,
tedious talkers, controvertists, ravishers, murderers, robbers,
virtuosos; no leaders, or followers, of party and faction; no
encouragers to vice, by seducement or examples; no dungeon, axes,
gibbets, whipping-posts, or pillories; no cheating shopkeepers or
mechanics; no pride, vanity, or affectation; no fops, bullies,
drunkards, strolling whores, or poxes; no ranting, lewd, expensive
wives; no stupid, proud pedants; no importunate, overbearing,
quarrelsome, noisy, roaring, empty, conceited, swearing companions; no
scoundrels raised from the dust upon the merit of their vices, or
nobility thrown into it on account of their virtues; no lords,
fiddlers, judges, or dancing-masters.

I had the favour of being admitted to several Houyhnhnms, who came to
visit or dine with my master; where his honour graciously suffered me
to wait in the room, and listen to their discourse. Both he and his
company would often descend to ask me questions, and receive my
answers. I had also sometimes the honour of attending my master in his
visits to others. I never presumed to speak, except in answer to a
question; and then I did it with inward regret, because it was a loss
of so much time for improving myself; but I was infinitely delighted
with the station of an humble auditor in such conversations, where
nothing passed but what was useful, expressed in the fewest and most
significant words; where, as I have already said, the greatest decency
was observed, without the least degree of ceremony; where no person
spoke without being pleased himself, and pleasing his companions; where
there was no interruption, tediousness, heat, or difference of
sentiments. They have a notion, that when people are met together, a
short silence does much improve conversation: this I found to be true;
for during those little intermissions of talk, new ideas would arise in
their minds, which very much enlivened the discourse. Their subjects
are, generally on friendship and benevolence, on order and economy;
sometimes upon the visible operations of nature, or ancient traditions;
upon the bounds and limits of virtue; upon the unerring rules of
reason, or upon some determinations to be taken at the next great
assembly: and often upon the various excellences of poetry. I may add,
without vanity, that my presence often gave them sufficient matter for
discourse, because it afforded my master an occasion of letting his
friends into the history of me and my country, upon which they were all
pleased to descant, in a manner not very advantageous to humankind: and
for that reason I shall not repeat what they said; only I may be
allowed to observe, that his honour, to my great admiration, appeared
to understand the nature of Yahoos much better than myself. He went
through all our vices and follies, and discovered many, which I had
never mentioned to him, by only supposing what qualities a Yahoo of
their country, with a small proportion of reason, might be capable of
exerting; and concluded, with too much probability, “how vile, as well
as miserable, such a creature must be.”

I freely confess, that all the little knowledge I have of any value,
was acquired by the lectures I received from my master, and from
hearing the discourses of him and his friends; to which I should be
prouder to listen, than to dictate to the greatest and wisest assembly
in Europe. I admired the strength, comeliness, and speed of the
inhabitants; and such a constellation of virtues, in such amiable
persons, produced in me the highest veneration. At first, indeed, I did
not feel that natural awe, which the Yahoos and all other animals
bear toward them; but it grew upon me by degrees, much sooner than I
imagined, and was mingled with a respectful love and gratitude, that
they would condescend to distinguish me from the rest of my species.

When I thought of my family, my friends, my countrymen, or the human
race in general, I considered them, as they really were, Yahoos in
shape and disposition, perhaps a little more civilized, and qualified
with the gift of speech; but making no other use of reason, than to
improve and multiply those vices whereof their brethren in this country
had only the share that nature allotted them. When I happened to behold
the reflection of my own form in a lake or fountain, I turned away my
face in horror and detestation of myself, and could better endure the
sight of a common Yahoo than of my own person. By conversing with the
Houyhnhnms, and looking upon them with delight, I fell to imitate
their gait and gesture, which is now grown into a habit; and my friends
often tell me, in a blunt way, “that I trot like a horse;” which,
however, I take for a great compliment. Neither shall I disown, that in
speaking I am apt to fall into the voice and manner of the
Houyhnhnms, and hear myself ridiculed on that account, without the
least mortification.

In the midst of all this happiness, and when I looked upon myself to be
fully settled for life, my master sent for me one morning a little
earlier than his usual hour. I observed by his countenance that he was
in some perplexity, and at a loss how to begin what he had to speak.
After a short silence, he told me, “he did not know how I would take
what he was going to say: that in the last general assembly, when the
affair of the Yahoos was entered upon, the representatives had taken
offence at his keeping a Yahoo (meaning myself) in his family, more
like a Houyhnhnm than a brute animal; that he was known frequently to
converse with me, as if he could receive some advantage or pleasure in
my company; that such a practice was not agreeable to reason or nature,
or a thing ever heard of before among them; the assembly did therefore
exhort him either to employ me like the rest of my species, or command
me to swim back to the place whence I came: that the first of these
expedients was utterly rejected by all the Houyhnhnms who had ever
seen me at his house or their own; for they alleged, that because I had
some rudiments of reason, added to the natural pravity of those
animals, it was to be feared I might be able to seduce them into the
woody and mountainous parts of the country, and bring them in troops by
night to destroy the Houyhnhnms’ cattle, as being naturally of the
ravenous kind, and averse from labour.”

My master added, “that he was daily pressed by the Houyhnhnms of the
neighbourhood to have the assembly’s exhortation executed, which he
could not put off much longer. He doubted it would be impossible for me
to swim to another country; and therefore wished I would contrive some
sort of vehicle, resembling those I had described to him, that might
carry me on the sea; in which work I should have the assistance of his
own servants, as well as those of his neighbours.” He concluded, “that
for his own part, he could have been content to keep me in his service
as long as I lived; because he found I had cured myself of some bad
habits and dispositions, by endeavouring, as far as my inferior nature
was capable, to imitate the Houyhnhnms.”

I should here observe to the reader, that a decree of the general
assembly in this country is expressed by the word hnhloayn, which
signifies an exhortation, as near as I can render it; for they have no
conception how a rational creature can be compelled, but only advised,
or exhorted; because no person can disobey reason, without giving up
his claim to be a rational creature.

I was struck with the utmost grief and despair at my master’s
discourse; and being unable to support the agonies I was under, I fell
into a swoon at his feet. When I came to myself, he told me “that he
concluded I had been dead;” for these people are subject to no such
imbecilities of nature. I answered in a faint voice, “that death would
have been too great a happiness; that although I could not blame the
assembly’s exhortation, or the urgency of his friends; yet, in my weak
and corrupt judgment, I thought it might consist with reason to have
been less rigorous; that I could not swim a league, and probably the
nearest land to theirs might be distant above a hundred: that many
materials, necessary for making a small vessel to carry me off, were
wholly wanting in this country; which, however, I would attempt, in
obedience and gratitude to his honour, although I concluded the thing
to be impossible, and therefore looked on myself as already devoted to
destruction; that the certain prospect of an unnatural death was the
least of my evils; for, supposing I should escape with life by some
strange adventure, how could I think with temper of passing my days
among Yahoos, and relapsing into my old corruptions, for want of
examples to lead and keep me within the paths of virtue? That I knew
too well upon what solid reasons all the determinations of the wise
Houyhnhnms were founded, not to be shaken by arguments of mine, a
miserable Yahoo; and therefore, after presenting him with my humble
thanks for the offer of his servants’ assistance in making a vessel,
and desiring a reasonable time for so difficult a work, I told him I
would endeavour to preserve a wretched being; and if ever I returned to
England, was not without hopes of being useful to my own species, by
celebrating the praises of the renowned Houyhnhnms, and proposing
their virtues to the imitation of mankind.”

My master, in a few words, made me a very gracious reply; allowed me
the space of two months to finish my boat; and ordered the sorrel nag,
my fellow-servant (for so, at this distance, I may presume to call
him), to follow my instruction; because I told my master, “that his
help would be sufficient, and I knew he had a tenderness for me.”

In his company, my first business was to go to that part of the coast
where my rebellious crew had ordered me to be set on shore. I got upon
a height, and looking on every side into the sea; fancied I saw a small
island toward the north-east. I took out my pocket glass, and could
then clearly distinguish it above five leagues off, as I computed; but
it appeared to the sorrel nag to be only a blue cloud: for as he had no
conception of any country beside his own, so he could not be as expert
in distinguishing remote objects at sea, as we who so much converse in
that element.

After I had discovered this island, I considered no further; but
resolved it should, if possible, be the first place of my banishment,
leaving the consequence to fortune.

I returned home, and consulting with the sorrel nag, we went into a
copse at some distance, where I with my knife, and he with a sharp
flint, fastened very artificially after their manner, to a wooden
handle, cut down several oak wattles, about the thickness of a
walking-staff, and some larger pieces. But I shall not trouble the
reader with a particular description of my own mechanics; let it
suffice to say, that in six weeks time with the help of the sorrel nag,
who performed the parts that required most labour, I finished a sort of
Indian canoe, but much larger, covering it with the skins of Yahoos,
well stitched together with hempen threads of my own making. My sail
was likewise composed of the skins of the same animal; but I made use
of the youngest I could get, the older being too tough and thick; and I
likewise provided myself with four paddles. I laid in a stock of boiled
flesh, of rabbits and fowls, and took with me two vessels, one filled
with milk and the other with water.

I tried my canoe in a large pond, near my master’s house, and then
corrected in it what was amiss; stopping all the chinks with Yahoos’
tallow, till I found it staunch, and able to bear me and my freight;
and, when it was as complete as I could possibly make it, I had it
drawn on a carriage very gently by Yahoos to the sea-side, under the
conduct of the sorrel nag and another servant.

When all was ready, and the day came for my departure, I took leave of
my master and lady and the whole family, my eyes flowing with tears,
and my heart quite sunk with grief. But his honour, out of curiosity,
and, perhaps, (if I may speak without vanity,) partly out of kindness,
was determined to see me in my canoe, and got several of his
neighbouring friends to accompany him. I was forced to wait above an
hour for the tide; and then observing the wind very fortunately bearing
toward the island to which I intended to steer my course, I took a
second leave of my master; but as I was going to prostrate myself to
kiss his hoof, he did me the honour to raise it gently to my mouth. I
am not ignorant how much I have been censured for mentioning this last
particular. Detractors are pleased to think it improbable, that so
illustrious a person should descend to give so great a mark of
distinction to a creature so inferior as I. Neither have I forgotten
how apt some travellers are to boast of extraordinary favours they have
received. But, if these censurers were better acquainted with the noble
and courteous disposition of the Houyhnhnms, they would soon change
their opinion.

I paid my respects to the rest of the Houyhnhnms in his honour’s
company; then getting into my canoe, I pushed off from shore.


CHAPTER XI.

The author’s dangerous voyage. He arrives at New Holland, hoping to
settle there. Is wounded with an arrow by one of the natives. Is seized
and carried by force into a Portuguese ship. The great civilities of
the captain. The author arrives at England.


I began this desperate voyage on February 15, 1714–15, at nine o’clock
in the morning. The wind was very favourable; however, I made use at
first only of my paddles; but considering I should soon be weary, and
that the wind might chop about, I ventured to set up my little sail;
and thus, with the help of the tide, I went at the rate of a league and
a half an hour, as near as I could guess. My master and his friends
continued on the shore till I was almost out of sight; and I often
heard the sorrel nag (who always loved me) crying out, “Hnuy illa
nyha, majah Yahoo;” “Take care of thyself, gentle Yahoo.”

My design was, if possible, to discover some small island uninhabited,
yet sufficient, by my labour, to furnish me with the necessaries of
life, which I would have thought a greater happiness, than to be first
minister in the politest court of Europe; so horrible was the idea I
conceived of returning to live in the society, and under the government
of Yahoos. For in such a solitude as I desired, I could at least
enjoy my own thoughts, and reflect with delight on the virtues of those
inimitable Houyhnhnms, without an opportunity of degenerating into
the vices and corruptions of my own species.

The reader may remember what I related, when my crew conspired against
me, and confined me to my cabin; how I continued there several weeks
without knowing what course we took; and when I was put ashore in the
long-boat, how the sailors told me, with oaths, whether true or false,
“that they knew not in what part of the world we were.” However, I did
then believe us to be about 10 degrees southward of the Cape of Good
Hope, or about 45 degrees southern latitude, as I gathered from some
general words I overheard among them, being I supposed to the
south-east in their intended voyage to Madagascar. And although this
were little better than conjecture, yet I resolved to steer my course
eastward, hoping to reach the south-west coast of New Holland, and
perhaps some such island as I desired lying westward of it. The wind
was full west, and by six in the evening I computed I had gone eastward
at least eighteen leagues; when I spied a very small island about half
a league off, which I soon reached. It was nothing but a rock, with one
creek naturally arched by the force of tempests. Here I put in my
canoe, and climbing a part of the rock, I could plainly discover land
to the east, extending from south to north. I lay all night in my
canoe; and repeating my voyage early in the morning, I arrived in seven
hours to the south-east point of New Holland. This confirmed me in the
opinion I have long entertained, that the maps and charts place this
country at least three degrees more to the east than it really is;
which thought I communicated many years ago to my worthy friend, Mr.
Herman Moll, and gave him my reasons for it, although he has rather
chosen to follow other authors.

I saw no inhabitants in the place where I landed, and being unarmed, I
was afraid of venturing far into the country. I found some shellfish on
the shore, and ate them raw, not daring to kindle a fire, for fear of
being discovered by the natives. I continued three days feeding on
oysters and limpets, to save my own provisions; and I fortunately found
a brook of excellent water, which gave me great relief.

On the fourth day, venturing out early a little too far, I saw twenty
or thirty natives upon a height not above five hundred yards from me.
They were stark naked, men, women, and children, round a fire, as I
could discover by the smoke. One of them spied me, and gave notice to
the rest; five of them advanced toward me, leaving the women and
children at the fire. I made what haste I could to the shore, and,
getting into my canoe, shoved off: the savages, observing me retreat,
ran after me; and before I could get far enough into the sea,
discharged an arrow which wounded me deeply on the inside of my left
knee: I shall carry the mark to my grave. I apprehended the arrow might
be poisoned, and paddling out of the reach of their darts (being a calm
day), I made a shift to suck the wound, and dress it as well as I
could.

I was at a loss what to do, for I durst not return to the same
landing-place, but stood to the north, and was forced to paddle, for
the wind, though very gentle, was against me, blowing north-west. As I
was looking about for a secure landing-place, I saw a sail to the
north-north-east, which appearing every minute more visible, I was in
some doubt whether I should wait for them or not; but at last my
detestation of the Yahoo race prevailed: and turning my canoe, I
sailed and paddled together to the south, and got into the same creek
whence I set out in the morning, choosing rather to trust myself among
these barbarians, than live with European Yahoos. I drew up my canoe
as close as I could to the shore, and hid myself behind a stone by the
little brook, which, as I have already said, was excellent water.

The ship came within half a league of this creek, and sent her
long-boat with vessels to take in fresh water (for the place, it seems,
was very well known); but I did not observe it, till the boat was
almost on shore; and it was too late to seek another hiding-place. The
seamen at their landing observed my canoe, and rummaging it all over,
easily conjectured that the owner could not be far off. Four of them,
well armed, searched every cranny and lurking-hole, till at last they
found me flat on my face behind the stone. They gazed awhile in
admiration at my strange uncouth dress; my coat made of skins, my
wooden-soled shoes, and my furred stockings; whence, however, they
concluded, I was not a native of the place, who all go naked. One of
the seamen, in Portuguese, bid me rise, and asked who I was. I
understood that language very well, and getting upon my feet, said, “I
was a poor Yahoo banished from the Houyhnhnms, and desired they
would please to let me depart.” They admired to hear me answer them in
their own tongue, and saw by my complexion I must be a European; but
were at a loss to know what I meant by Yahoos and Houyhnhnms; and
at the same time fell a-laughing at my strange tone in speaking, which
resembled the neighing of a horse. I trembled all the while betwixt
fear and hatred. I again desired leave to depart, and was gently moving
to my canoe; but they laid hold of me, desiring to know, “what country
I was of? whence I came?” with many other questions. I told them “I was
born in England, whence I came about five years ago, and then their
country and ours were at peace. I therefore hoped they would not treat
me as an enemy, since I meant them no harm, but was a poor Yahoo
seeking some desolate place where to pass the remainder of his
unfortunate life.”

When they began to talk, I thought I never heard or saw any thing more
unnatural; for it appeared to me as monstrous as if a dog or a cow
should speak in England, or a Yahoo in Houyhnhnmland. The honest
Portuguese were equally amazed at my strange dress, and the odd manner
of delivering my words, which, however, they understood very well. They
spoke to me with great humanity, and said, “they were sure the captain
would carry me gratis to Lisbon, whence I might return to my own
country; that two of the seamen would go back to the ship, inform the
captain of what they had seen, and receive his orders; in the mean
time, unless I would give my solemn oath not to fly, they would secure
me by force. I thought it best to comply with their proposal. They were
very curious to know my story, but I gave them very little
satisfaction, and they all conjectured that my misfortunes had impaired
my reason. In two hours the boat, which went laden with vessels of
water, returned, with the captain’s command to fetch me on board. I
fell on my knees to preserve my liberty; but all was in vain; and the
men, having tied me with cords, heaved me into the boat, whence I was
taken into the ship, and thence into the captain’s cabin.

His name was Pedro de Mendez; he was a very courteous and generous
person. He entreated me to give some account of myself, and desired to
know what I would eat or drink; said, “I should be used as well as
himself;” and spoke so many obliging things, that I wondered to find
such civilities from a Yahoo. However, I remained silent and sullen;
I was ready to faint at the very smell of him and his men. At last I
desired something to eat out of my own canoe; but he ordered me a
chicken, and some excellent wine, and then directed that I should be
put to bed in a very clean cabin. I would not undress myself, but lay
on the bed-clothes, and in half an hour stole out, when I thought the
crew was at dinner, and getting to the side of the ship, was going to
leap into the sea, and swim for my life, rather than continue among
Yahoos. But one of the seamen prevented me, and having informed the
captain, I was chained to my cabin.

After dinner, Don Pedro came to me, and desired to know my reason for
so desperate an attempt; assured me, “he only meant to do me all the
service he was able;” and spoke so very movingly, that at last I
descended to treat him like an animal which had some little portion of
reason. I gave him a very short relation of my voyage; of the
conspiracy against me by my own men; of the country where they set me
on shore, and of my five years residence there. All which he looked
upon as if it were a dream or a vision; whereat I took great offence;
for I had quite forgot the faculty of lying, so peculiar to Yahoos,
in all countries where they preside, and, consequently, their
disposition of suspecting truth in others of their own species. I asked
him, “whether it were the custom in his country to say the thing which
was not?” I assured him, “I had almost forgot what he meant by
falsehood, and if I had lived a thousand years in Houyhnhnmland, I
should never have heard a lie from the meanest servant; that I was
altogether indifferent whether he believed me or not; but, however, in
return for his favours, I would give so much allowance to the
corruption of his nature, as to answer any objection he would please to
make, and then he might easily discover the truth.”

The captain, a wise man, after many endeavours to catch me tripping in
some part of my story, at last began to have a better opinion of my
veracity. But he added, “that since I professed so inviolable an
attachment to truth, I must give him my word and honour to bear him
company in this voyage, without attempting any thing against my life;
or else he would continue me a prisoner till we arrived at Lisbon.” I
gave him the promise he required; but at the same time protested, “that
I would suffer the greatest hardships, rather than return to live among
Yahoos.”

Our voyage passed without any considerable accident. In gratitude to
the captain, I sometimes sat with him, at his earnest request, and
strove to conceal my antipathy against humankind, although it often
broke out; which he suffered to pass without observation. But the
greatest part of the day I confined myself to my cabin, to avoid seeing
any of the crew. The captain had often entreated me to strip myself of
my savage dress, and offered to lend me the best suit of clothes he
had. This I would not be prevailed on to accept, abhorring to cover
myself with any thing that had been on the back of a Yahoo. I only
desired he would lend me two clean shirts, which, having been washed
since he wore them, I believed would not so much defile me. These I
changed every second day, and washed them myself.

We arrived at Lisbon, Nov. 5, 1715. At our landing, the captain forced
me to cover myself with his cloak, to prevent the rabble from crowding
about me. I was conveyed to his own house; and at my earnest request he
led me up to the highest room backwards. I conjured him “to conceal
from all persons what I had told him of the Houyhnhnms; because the
least hint of such a story would not only draw numbers of people to see
me, but probably put me in danger of being imprisoned, or burnt by the
Inquisition.” The captain persuaded me to accept a suit of clothes
newly made; but I would not suffer the tailor to take my measure;
however, Don Pedro being almost of my size, they fitted me well enough.
He accoutred me with other necessaries, all new, which I aired for
twenty-four hours before I would use them.

The captain had no wife, nor above three servants, none of which were
suffered to attend at meals; and his whole deportment was so obliging,
added to very good human understanding, that I really began to tolerate
his company. He gained so far upon me, that I ventured to look out of
the back window. By degrees I was brought into another room, whence I
peeped into the street, but drew my head back in a fright. In a week’s
time he seduced me down to the door. I found my terror gradually
lessened, but my hatred and contempt seemed to increase. I was at last
bold enough to walk the street in his company, but kept my nose well
stopped with rue, or sometimes with tobacco.

In ten days, Don Pedro, to whom I had given some account of my domestic
affairs, put it upon me, as a matter of honour and conscience, “that I
ought to return to my native country, and live at home with my wife and
children.” He told me, “there was an English ship in the port just
ready to sail, and he would furnish me with all things necessary.” It
would be tedious to repeat his arguments, and my contradictions. He
said, “it was altogether impossible to find such a solitary island as I
desired to live in; but I might command in my own house, and pass my
time in a manner as recluse as I pleased.”

I complied at last, finding I could not do better. I left Lisbon the
24th day of November, in an English merchantman, but who was the master
I never inquired. Don Pedro accompanied me to the ship, and lent me
twenty pounds. He took kind leave of me, and embraced me at parting,
which I bore as well as I could. During this last voyage I had no
commerce with the master or any of his men; but, pretending I was sick,
kept close in my cabin. On the fifth of December, 1715, we cast anchor
in the Downs, about nine in the morning, and at three in the afternoon
I got safe to my house at Rotherhith. [546]

My wife and family received me with great surprise and joy, because
they concluded me certainly dead; but I must freely confess the sight
of them filled me only with hatred, disgust, and contempt; and the
more, by reflecting on the near alliance I had to them. For although,
since my unfortunate exile from the Houyhnhnm country, I had
compelled myself to tolerate the sight of Yahoos, and to converse
with Don Pedro de Mendez, yet my memory and imagination were
perpetually filled with the virtues and ideas of those exalted
Houyhnhnms. And when I began to consider that, by copulating with one
of the Yahoo species I had become a parent of more, it struck me with
the utmost shame, confusion, and horror.

As soon as I entered the house, my wife took me in her arms, and kissed
me; at which, having not been used to the touch of that odious animal
for so many years, I fell into a swoon for almost an hour. At the time
I am writing, it is five years since my last return to England. During
the first year, I could not endure my wife or children in my presence;
the very smell of them was intolerable; much less could I suffer them
to eat in the same room. To this hour they dare not presume to touch my
bread, or drink out of the same cup, neither was I ever able to let one
of them take me by the hand. The first money I laid out was to buy two
young stone-horses, which I keep in a good stable; and next to them,
the groom is my greatest favourite, for I feel my spirits revived by
the smell he contracts in the stable. My horses understand me tolerably
well; I converse with them at least four hours every day. They are
strangers to bridle or saddle; they live in great amity with me and
friendship to each other.


CHAPTER XII.

The author’s veracity. His design in publishing this work. His censure
of those travellers who swerve from the truth. The author clears
himself from any sinister ends in writing. An objection answered. The
method of planting colonies. His native country commended. The right of
the crown to those countries described by the author is justified. The
difficulty of conquering them. The author takes his last leave of the
reader; proposes his manner of living for the future; gives good
advice, and concludes.


Thus, gentle reader, I have given thee a faithful history of my travels
for sixteen years and above seven months: wherein I have not been so
studious of ornament as of truth. I could, perhaps, like others, have
astonished thee with strange improbable tales; but I rather chose to
relate plain matter of fact, in the simplest manner and style; because
my principal design was to inform, and not to amuse thee.

It is easy for us who travel into remote countries, which are seldom
visited by Englishmen or other Europeans, to form descriptions of
wonderful animals both at sea and land. Whereas a traveller’s chief aim
should be to make men wiser and better, and to improve their minds by
the bad, as well as good, example of what they deliver concerning
foreign places.

I could heartily wish a law was enacted, that every traveller, before
he were permitted to publish his voyages, should be obliged to make
oath before the Lord High Chancellor, that all he intended to print was
absolutely true to the best of his knowledge; for then the world would
no longer be deceived, as it usually is, while some writers, to make
their works pass the better upon the public, impose the grossest
falsities on the unwary reader. I have perused several books of travels
with great delight in my younger days; but having since gone over most
parts of the globe, and been able to contradict many fabulous accounts
from my own observation, it has given me a great disgust against this
part of reading, and some indignation to see the credulity of mankind
so impudently abused. Therefore, since my acquaintance were pleased to
think my poor endeavours might not be unacceptable to my country, I
imposed on myself, as a maxim never to be swerved from, that I would
strictly adhere to truth; neither indeed can I be ever under the least
temptation to vary from it, while I retain in my mind the lectures and
example of my noble master and the other illustrious Houyhnhnms of
whom I had so long the honour to be an humble hearer.


—Nec si miserum Fortuna Sinonem

Finxit, vanum etiam, mendacemque improba finget.

I know very well, how little reputation is to be got by writings which
require neither genius nor learning, nor indeed any other talent,
except a good memory, or an exact journal. I know likewise, that
writers of travels, like dictionary-makers, are sunk into oblivion by
the weight and bulk of those who come last, and therefore lie
uppermost. And it is highly probable, that such travellers, who shall
hereafter visit the countries described in this work of mine, may, by
detecting my errors (if there be any), and adding many new discoveries
of their own, jostle me out of vogue, and stand in my place, making the
world forget that ever I was an author. This indeed would be too great
a mortification, if I wrote for fame: but as my sole intention was the
public good, I cannot be altogether disappointed. For who can read of
the virtues I have mentioned in the glorious Houyhnhnms, without
being ashamed of his own vices, when he considers himself as the
reasoning, governing animal of his country? I shall say nothing of
those remote nations where Yahoos preside; among which the least
corrupted are the Brobdingnagians; whose wise maxims in morality and
government it would be our happiness to observe. But I forbear
descanting further, and rather leave the judicious reader to his own
remarks and application.

I am not a little pleased that this work of mine can possibly meet with
no censurers: for what objections can be made against a writer, who
relates only plain facts, that happened in such distant countries,
where we have not the least interest, with respect either to trade or
negotiations? I have carefully avoided every fault with which common
writers of travels are often too justly charged. Besides, I meddle not
the least with any party, but write without passion, prejudice, or
ill-will against any man, or number of men, whatsoever. I write for the
noblest end, to inform and instruct mankind; over whom I may, without
breach of modesty, pretend to some superiority, from the advantages I
received by conversing so long among the most accomplished
Houyhnhnms. I write without any view to profit or praise. I never
suffer a word to pass that may look like reflection, or possibly give
the least offence, even to those who are most ready to take it. So that
I hope I may with justice pronounce myself an author perfectly
blameless; against whom the tribes of Answerers, Considerers,
Observers, Reflectors, Detectors, Remarkers, will never be able to find
matter for exercising their talents.

I confess, it was whispered to me, “that I was bound in duty, as a
subject of England, to have given in a memorial to a secretary of state
at my first coming over; because, whatever lands are discovered by a
subject belong to the crown.” But I doubt whether our conquests in the
countries I treat of would be as easy as those of Ferdinando Cortez
over the naked Americans. The Lilliputians, I think, are hardly worth
the charge of a fleet and army to reduce them; and I question whether
it might be prudent or safe to attempt the Brobdingnagians; or
whether an English army would be much at their ease with the Flying
Island over their heads. The Houyhnhnms indeed appear not to be so
well prepared for war, a science to which they are perfect strangers,
and especially against missive weapons. However, supposing myself to be
a minister of state, I could never give my advice for invading them.
Their prudence, unanimity, unacquaintedness with fear, and their love
of their country, would amply supply all defects in the military art.
Imagine twenty thousand of them breaking into the midst of an European
army, confounding the ranks, overturning the carriages, battering the
warriors’ faces into mummy by terrible yerks from their hinder hoofs.
For they would well deserve the character given to Augustus,
Recalcitrat undique tutus. But, instead of proposals for conquering
that magnanimous nation, I rather wish they were in a capacity, or
disposition, to send a sufficient number of their inhabitants for
civilizing Europe, by teaching us the first principles of honour,
justice, truth, temperance, public spirit, fortitude, chastity,
friendship, benevolence, and fidelity. The names of all which virtues
are still retained among us in most languages, and are to be met with
in modern, as well as ancient authors; which I am able to assert from
my own small reading.

But I had another reason, which made me less forward to enlarge his
majesty’s dominions by my discoveries. To say the truth, I had
conceived a few scruples with relation to the distributive justice of
princes upon those occasions. For instance, a crew of pirates are
driven by a storm they know not whither; at length a boy discovers land
from the topmast; they go on shore to rob and plunder, they see a
harmless people, are entertained with kindness; they give the country a
new name; they take formal possession of it for their king; they set up
a rotten plank, or a stone, for a memorial; they murder two or three
dozen of the natives, bring away a couple more, by force, for a sample;
return home, and get their pardon. Here commences a new dominion
acquired with a title by divine right. Ships are sent with the first
opportunity; the natives driven out or destroyed; their princes
tortured to discover their gold; a free license given to all acts of
inhumanity and lust, the earth reeking with the blood of its
inhabitants: and this execrable crew of butchers, employed in so pious
an expedition, is a modern colony, sent to convert and civilize an
idolatrous and barbarous people!

But this description, I confess, does by no means affect the British
nation, who may be an example to the whole world for their wisdom,
care, and justice in planting colonies; their liberal endowments for
the advancement of religion and learning; their choice of devout and
able pastors to propagate Christianity; their caution in stocking their
provinces with people of sober lives and conversations from this the
mother kingdom; their strict regard to the distribution of justice, in
supplying the civil administration through all their colonies with
officers of the greatest abilities, utter strangers to corruption; and,
to crown all, by sending the most vigilant and virtuous governors, who
have no other views than the happiness of the people over whom they
preside, and the honour of the king their master.

But as those countries which I have described do not appear to have any
desire of being conquered and enslaved, murdered or driven out by
colonies, nor abound either in gold, silver, sugar, or tobacco, I did
humbly conceive, they were by no means proper objects of our zeal, our
valour, or our interest. However, if those whom it more concerns think
fit to be of another opinion, I am ready to depose, when I shall be
lawfully called, that no European did ever visit those countries before
me. I mean, if the inhabitants ought to be believed, unless a dispute
may arise concerning the two Yahoos, said to have been seen many
years ago upon a mountain in Houyhnhnmland, from whence the opinion
is, that the race of those brutes hath descended; and these, for
anything I know, may have been English, which indeed I was apt to
suspect from the lineaments of their posterity’s countenances, although
very much defaced. But, how far that will go to make out a title, I
leave to the learned in colony-law.

But, as to the formality of taking possession in my sovereign’s name,
it never came once into my thoughts; and if it had, yet, as my affairs
then stood, I should perhaps, in point of prudence and
self-preservation, have put it off to a better opportunity.

Having thus answered the only objection that can ever be raised against
me as a traveller, I here take a final leave of all my courteous
readers, and return to enjoy my own speculations in my little garden at
Redriff; to apply those excellent lessons of virtue which I learned
among the Houyhnhnms; to instruct the Yahoos of my own family, as
far as I shall find them docible animals; to behold my figure often in
a glass, and thus, if possible, habituate myself by time to tolerate
the sight of a human creature; to lament the brutality to Houyhnhnms
in my own country, but always treat their persons with respect, for the
sake of my noble master, his family, his friends, and the whole
Houyhnhnm race, whom these of ours have the honour to resemble in all
their lineaments, however their intellectuals came to degenerate.

I began last week to permit my wife to sit at dinner with me, at the
farthest end of a long table; and to answer (but with the utmost
brevity) the few questions I asked her. Yet, the smell of a Yahoo
continuing very offensive, I always keep my nose well stopped with rue,
lavender, or tobacco leaves. And, although it be hard for a man late in
life to remove old habits, I am not altogether out of hopes, in some
time, to suffer a neighbour Yahoo in my company, without the
apprehensions I am yet under of his teeth or his claws.

My reconcilement to the Yahoo-kind in general might not be so
difficult, if they would be content with those vices and follies only
which nature has entitled them to. I am not in the least provoked at
the sight of a lawyer, a pickpocket, a colonel, a fool, a lord, a
gamester, a politician, a whoremonger, a physician, an evidence, a
suborner, an attorney, a traitor, or the like; this is all according to
the due course of things: but when I behold a lump of deformity and
diseases, both in body and mind, smitten with pride, it immediately
breaks all the measures of my patience; neither shall I be ever able to
comprehend how such an animal, and such a vice, could tally together.
The wise and virtuous Houyhnhnms, who abound in all excellences that
can adorn a rational creature, have no name for this vice in their
language, which has no terms to express any thing that is evil, except
those whereby they describe the detestable qualities of their Yahoos,
among which they were not able to distinguish this of pride, for want
of thoroughly understanding human nature, as it shows itself in other
countries where that animal presides. But I, who had more experience,
could plainly observe some rudiments of it among the wild Yahoos.


But the Houyhnhnms, who live under the government of reason, are no
more proud of the good qualities they possess, than I should be for not
wanting a leg or an arm; which no man in his wits would boast of,
although he must be miserable without them. I dwell the longer upon
this subject from the desire I have to make the society of an English
Yahoo by any means not insupportable; and therefore I here entreat
those who have any tincture of this absurd vice, that they will not
presume to come in my sight.


FOOTNOTES:

[301] A stang is a pole or perch; sixteen feet and a half.

[330] An act of parliament has been since passed by which some breaches
of trust have been made capital.

[454a] Britannia.—Sir W. Scott.

[454b] London.—Sir W. Scott.

[455] This is the revised text adopted by Dr. Hawksworth (1766). The
above paragraph in the original editions (1726) takes another form,
commencing:—“I told him that should I happen to live in a kingdom where
lots were in vogue,” &c. The names Tribnia and Langden are not
mentioned, and the “close stool” and its signification do not occur.

[514] This paragraph is not in the original editions.

[546] The original editions and Hawksworth’s have Rotherhith here,
though earlier in the work, Redriff is said to have been Gulliver’s
home in England.
